 this is a demo a FINNEY's cyber-security suite and built-in intrusion prevention system, or IPS. The first attack we're going to demonstrate is a man-in-the-middle or MITM, and this is an example of what would happen if a FINNEY was connected to a rogue, or fake, Wi-Fi network. This attack will attempt to trick the device into receiving fake data, which will allow the attacker to intercept all data being transmitted to and from the device. First we'll check to make sure that the cyber-security suite is turned on and actively protecting the device. Next we'll go to the Wi-Fi settings, and when we do, we'll see that FINNEY has already been connected to an open Wi-Fi network. We can see that FINNEY has been given an IP address on the network and that is 192.168.1. Now, on the left you can see the hacker who has started a search of all devices connected to their hotspot, and will now attempt to initiate an attack on the FINNEY device by sending fake information. Now as you can see, the moment the attack begins the IPS immediately disconnects from the network and alerts the user of the attempted attack The next attack we are demonstrating is an SSL strip attack, where the users privacy and security are compromised by tricking the device into using a connection that looks authentic and secure, when it is not. The potential risks associated with connecting to a fake SSL site is significant nearly all banks and credit card companies use SSL connections on their websites in order to protect their client's security by creating a fake website with fake SSL connections hackers can obtain your login information and take control of these accounts. In this demonstration, the hacker will be targeting FINNEY directly through its associated IP address and the attack will begin the moment FINNEY is reconnected to the rogue, or fake,Wi-Fi network. When FINNEY reconnects to the Wi-Fi network the attack is immediately detected the device is disconnected from the network and the user is informed of the attempted network attack The last attack were going to be demonstrating is the installation of malicious software. Now, what we're going to be doing here is downloading and installing a known malicious application, but the functionality will work just the same with any application that is downloaded from any location. Whether that be the Google Play Store, through a trusted third party website or individual or really any other source. The intrusion prevention system will be able to detect and recognize any malicious installation. As the "Backup" application is being installed here, the IPS detects and recognizes the application as malicious, stops the application process, and warns the user of the attempted attack Finally by going back into the Cyber-Security Center, users will be able to review all of the attacks that have been attempted and defended on the device 