 What is Facebook’s Libra?  Is it the next Bitcoin? Should I invest in it? When is it coming out and who controls it? Well, stick around, in this episode  of Crypto whiteboard Tuesday we’ll answer these questions and more. Hi, I’m Nate Martin from 99Bitcoins.com and welcome to  Crypto Whiteboard Tuesday where we take  complex cryptocurrency topics, break them down and translate them  into plain English. Before we begin, don't forget to subscribe to the channel and click the bell  so you’ll immediately get notified when a new video comes out. Today’s topic is Facebook’s  cryptocurrency known as Libra. Libra is a cryptocurrency project,  pioneered by Facebook, that is presumed to launch  sometime in late 2020. Its purpose is to connect the billions of people living together  on this planet through one digital currency. As the world moves into a cashless,  digital only economy, many unbanked or underbanked people  may be left out. The Libra cryptocurrency aims to help people that don’t have  any access to the banking system to participate in the digital economy. Libra is designed to work  much like a stablecoin - a cryptocurrency with a relatively  stable value against real world currencies also known as fiat currencies. Unlike Bitcoin or Ethereum, which widely fluctuate in value  due to price speculation, Libra’s value will have low volatility due to a reserve of currencies  and assets that back it. Facebook also set up a subsidiary  called Calibra Inc. which is currently developing  the first Libra wallet also called Calibra. Calibra is set to work as  an independent wallet for Libra but will also integrate with other services  such as Facebook and Whatsapp allowing billions of users to send funds  to each other with a single tap and with low fees. The Calibra wallet is still in development, but according to its site, you will be required to verify your identity  with a government ID in order to sign up. The wallet will also allow you  to purchase Libra in exchange for fiat currencies. While the Libra initiative  was set in motion by Facebook, some of the major companies  around the world are partners in it. Uber, Coinbase, Spotify and Vodafone  to name a few. These companies will be part of  the Libra association and will manage the development  of the currency and its network. So does this mean that Libra  is actually centralized? The answer to that  requires some explanation... Libra is set to start out  as a centralized currency, but that within 5 years  will become completely decentralized just like Bitcoin. In its initial stages, the Libra project will be managed  and controlled by the Libra association; A non profit organization  comprised of global companies, social organizations  and academic institutions. To become a founding member  you need to stake $10m. Each founding member will also be  required to run a validator node - a computer that validates  and approves transactions following the Libra rules. This is a bit similar to a what  a miner does in the Bitcoin network. But money and computing power  aren’t enough to join the Libra association as a founding member. You’ll also have to pass  a certain scalability bar. For example, commercial companies need to have more than $1 billion  in market value, reach over 20 million people a year and be recognized as  a top 100 industry leader. Cryptocurrency focused investors need to have at least $1 billion in assets  under management. Social organizations will need to have a track record of working on  poverty alleviation, ranked in the top 100 in their field and have an operating budget  of over $50 million. And lastly, academic institutions  wanting to join will need to prove that they are  in the top 100 universities in the world according to certain standards. While Libra’s vision is that anyone  with sufficient stake in the Libra network will be able to serve as a validator, initially the network will be limited to 100 qualified founding members  and validators. It's important to note that while Facebook Inc. is indeed the initial founding member  of the Libra project, it has the same commitments,  privileges and financial obligations as any other founding member. But what does the association  actually do? How is the power distributed  between its members? The Libra association is in charge of  the Libra protocol, meaning the rules of the network,  and of managing the Libra reserve which I’ll get to in a moment. The governing body  of the Libra Association is the Libra Association Council, comprised of one representative  from each member of the association. You can think of the council  as shareholders in the Libra association. They get to vote on key decisions but they’re not involved  in the day to day management. The voting powers in the council  are generally proportional to stake, in other words - the money invested  by each specific organization. However, the voting powers  are also capped to avoid concentration of power. The council appoints an executive team  under a managing director to carry out decisions  and manage day to day issues, similar to shareholders appointing a CEO. Additionally, a Libra Association Board, comprised of 5 to 19 members  of the council will provide guidance  to the executive team. This would be similar to  a board of directors to which a CEO is accountable. Finally we have the social impact  advisory board led by nonprofit organizations  and academic institutions. This advisory board seems to have  limited influence since the board has to approve  its recommendations. For Libra’s vision of decentralization  to indeed be realized, the association would eventually  become unnecessary and the Libra project will be controlled through the public’s participation  in the network. But what about the value  of the Libra currency? How will it be maintained? As you may already know, most cryptocurrencies aren’t backed  by any commodity or fiat currency. That’s why they often fluctuate  so dramatically in price, since a lot of people are speculating on  how much they will be worth in the future. Libra, on the other hand,  is set for day to day use, which requires it to have  a less volatile nature. That’s why for every Libra created there will be a set of stable  and liquid assets backing it. This backing,  known as the Libra reserve, helps make Libra more stable so users will be able to sell Libra coins at or close to the value for which  they bought them. The Libra reserve expands and shrinks according to supply and demand  for Libra from the market. So unlike many cryptocurrencies  that have a limited supply, or use mining to generate new coins, the Libra supply is ever changing. If people demand Libra - more coins will be created in exchange for the fiat currency  used to buy it. If people sell off the Libra - the reserve will shrink accordingly  and so will the Libra money supply. The initial funding for the reserve will come from founding members  of the Libra association and from users buying the coin  once it launches. It will be safeguarded  by several different custodians, to avoid centralization risk,  and it will be audited periodically. The reserve backs the Libra in full with a goal to always preserve  Libra’s purchasing power. This type of reserve discourages  a classic run on the bank. The typical rationale behind a bank run  is that a coin is only fractionally backed, and there isn’t enough hard cash  to go around if everyone were to decide to cash out  at the same time. A fully backed reserve promises that everyone would be able to  cash out at any moment even if the market were to panic. You may be wondering what do the founding members  get in return for their initial investment which creates the reserve? The answer is the Libra Investment Token. The reserve funds I mentioned earlier will be invested in low-volatility,  highly liquid assets like bank deposits  and government bonds with low default probability  and low inflation expectations. The yield from the reserve will be used to support  the operating expenses of the Libra association but will also be distributed to the holders  of the Libra investment token. The Libra Investment Token is in fact a security issued by  the Libra association which, unlike the Libra coin, can,  and probably will fluctuate in value. When a founding member  of the Libra association invests an initial amount in the reserve, they get the Libra Investment Token  in return. This token can be considered as a share  in the Libra association. If the Libra reserve generates a profit  it will be distributed to the token holders. Since the Libra Investment Token  is considered a security, it will be available only to founding  members of the Libra association and to accredited investors  from the general public. Keep in mind that since the reserve is invested in very low risk -  low yield assets, it’s planned to make a substantial profit only if the Libra project  were to truly take off. The reserve needs to be large enough  to generate substantial profits even from low interest rate investments. So there you have it- a vision for a global  decentrazlied currency that’s starting out as a centralized  cryptocurrency controlled by a consortium  of corporates worldwide. As you can imagine, the Libra project attracts  its share of criticism. So before we conclude today’s lesson, let me point out some of the more  concerning points about Libra. First of all, Libra seems to be  just another fiat currency, only this time  it’s controlled by corporates and not by central banks. The Libra association states that in the early development  of the Libra network, its founding members are committed  to working with authorities and to address all regulatory concerns. Basically, this means that Libra  will probably be available only for people who pass  a certain verification process, making it still unreachable  to many unbanked and underbanked people  around the world. Keep in mind that over half of  the 1.7 billion underbanked come from just seven countries: Bangladesh, China, India, Indonesia,  Mexico, Nigeria, and Pakistan; in more than half of these places, cryptocurrencies are banned,  Facebook can’t freely operate, and heavy regulatory restrictions exist to combat crime  and money-laundering concerns. On top of that, Libra’s value is backed by  major fiat currencies making it inherently attached  to their fluctuations. Then we have the issue of privacy, for which Facebook is already  widely criticized. Much like Bitcoin, Libra transactions  are pseudonymous. This means all transactions are public  and visible to everyone, but you can’t tell who sent what to whom, since Libra addresses are just  random letters and numbers. However, if you take into account that Libra wallets will require  some sort of user verification, you can easily see  how financial information can be constructed by certain entities  like Libra wallets and therefore possibly leaked. Another important issue is the fact  that Libra is a centralized, also known as permissioned blockchain, with intentions of becoming  permissionless, but it remains unclear how  and if this transition will actually occur. The financial interests  of the companies behind Libra may collide with this vision if Libra becomes extremely popular, and it requires a significant level of trust  on the public’s part to believe that those organizations  would lobby for Libra’s vision over their own interests. Moreover, there are almost  a dozen major unsolved issues, clearly stated on Libra’s website  that will need to be addressed in order for it to become  truly decentralized. Some of the challenges the switch  to decentralization presents includes how to decentralize the reserve function, how to scale the system  so it will work fast enough with more than 100 validators, how to secure a decentralized network  against fraud, and most importantly, the issue of decentralized governance - how will decisions be made  once there is no centrazlied council? Bitcoin proponents would argue that  if you want to create a decentralized coin, you should make it decentralized  from the get go, since a decentralized model is something that needs to be  taken into account when building the foundations  for any blockchain. One theory suggests that  when building a blockchain you’re ideally looking for  three main elements: 1. Decentralization - meaning anyone can participate  and it's free for all. Next, security - Since these are digital currencies you need to protect against  double spending issues. And scale - You want the system to be able to have  a high rate of transaction approval so it can easily be adopted worldwide. The problem is that by design  you can only have two out of the three. Currencies that are decentralized  and secure like Bitcoin, aren’t really scalable. Currencies that are scalable and secure  aren’t truly decentralized, like Ripple and its XRP currency. Currencies that are decentralized  and scalable are inherently insecure since it takes time for the data to travel  between all participants in a large system, and bad actors can take advantage  of this lag in information. In Libra’s case - while it is starts out  as secure and scalable, there’s no clear understanding of how  it will become decentralized as well. Finally, we have Libra’s  governance model and regulation. One of the most interesting  points of criticism about this issue comes from an article by Dmitriy Brenzon,  a research partner at Zenith Ventures. Brenzon says it is unclear whether  the benefits of the public good which Libra aims to serve,  is a strong enough incentive for competing organizations  with conflicting priorities. For example what happens if Calibra,  the Libra wallet developer, wants to launch  in the same market as Celo, a platform for stable,  secure digital payments? Celo is a portfolio company  of Andreessen Horowitz and Coinbase, which are part of the Libra council. Or what happens if Vodafone, another founding member  of the Libra council, wants to launch a Calibra competitor  similar to M-Pesa, a mobile phone based  money transfer system? Brenzon puts it this way, “With only 28–100 Council members, politics should be expected; after all, there will be individuals  from organizations who know how to play that game.”. His final point really hits the mark - “What is the incentive for companies  to participate, and will it be strong enough to stand up  against regulators and governments when push comes to shove? While Libra intends to create a network  that operates across any country, it’s actually creating a network  that will have to comply with every country’s regulatory regime.” Several regulators from countries  around the world like France and Germany  have already lashed out against Libra. Subsequently, major council members Visa, Mastercard, PayPal, Stripe, eBay,  Booking.com and Mercado Pago decided to withdraw their membership, leaving Libra with no major  US payment provider and with hindered momentum. As you can see, there’s still a big question mark on whether Libra will actually launch  and if so, how successful it will become. But there’s no doubt about it: Libra is a groundbreaking move  on Facebook’s part. It shows we’re entering a new world where not only governments  can create money, but also corporates. A lot of crypto-anarchists believe that the world is already run  by a corporatocracy - companies that dictate national interests  through lobbying, and this is just another step  towards increasing the corporate hold over governments. No matter how the Libra project  pans out, it's a statement that cryptocurrencies  are the future of the global economy. That’s it for today’s episode of Crypto Whiteboard Tuesday. Hopefully by now you understand  what Libra is - A centralized, global, stable  cryptocurrency project set to launch in 2020, headed by Facebook and a consortium of  major companies around the world. You may still have some questions. If so, just leave them  in the comment section below. And if you’re watching this video  on YouTube, and enjoy what you’ve seen,  don’t forget to hit the like button. Then make sure to subscribe  to the channel and click that bell so that you’ll be notified  as soon as we post new episodes. Thanks for joining me  here at the Whiteboard. For 99bitcoins.com, I’m Nate Martin,  and I’ll see you…in a bit. 