 What is Blockchain technology? Is it “the next big thing”? Are you missing out  on a once in a lifetime opportunity when some startup wants you to invest  in thier blockchain based venture? Well stick around, in this episode  of Crypto Whiteboard Tuesday we’ll answer these questions and more. Hi, I’m Nate Martin  from 99Bitcoins.com and welcome  to Crypto Whiteboard Tuesday where we take  complex cryptocurrency topics, break them down and translate them  into plain English. Before we begin, don’t forget to subscribe to the channel and click the bell  so you’ll immediately get notified when a new video comes out. Today’s topic is the Blockchain and the exciting world  of blockchain technology. Hopefully by the end of this video you’ll understand exactly  what blockchain technology is and why it’s really hard  to seperate it from Bitcoin. Before we understand  how Blockchain technology works, we need to understand what problems  it was designed to solve, so let’s take a step back  and let me ask you a question... How do we tell if something  is fake or real in today’s world? For example, a dollar bill, a driver’s license  or a vote in the election. How do we determine  whether it’s valid or not? The answer? We keep a record of it. For example, each dollar bill has a serial number  that is recorded by the bank. Your driver’s license number  is recorded by the DMV and voting records are used to track  who voted and who didn’t, so the same person  won’t be able to vote twice. Whenever you want to verify  that a document is legit, you just look it up  with the relevant authority. We even have Notaries, people who are licensed  by the government to act as witnesses to attest and record the validity of pieces of information  or identities. You’ll notice there’s one thing  that all of these mechanisms have in common - they are all centralized, which means there’s a central authority, whether it’s a bank, state office, or person that has the power to issue  and validate information. These central authorities  have a lot of power, and as you know  power may sometimes corrupt. So what happens  if one of these authorities wants to change the facts  or even maybe change history a little bit? This my sound far fetched, but even our world history  is just a record kept by historians in a centralized manner. The phrase  “History is written by the victors” tells us that facts  can sometimes be distorted by those in power. If you don’t think that’s possible, here’s a real life example. Today, most money is just a record  of who owes what to whom. Due to the subprime crisis in 2008, almost a thousand companies in the US  received over 630 billion dollars that never existed before. Other companies had debts  completely removed. Some would argue this bailout  was justified, but you can’t deny that someone  decided to change the records of how much money  was owned and owed. This is why Bitcoin was born. It was the first form of money  that removes the need for a central authority. Its records are kept by everyone, not just by central banks. And when everyone is keeping track  and verifying the facts, well, that means that you can no longer  change the ledger of transactions whenever something doesn’t add up  or because it’s more convenient. You actually have to start being accountable. But money isn’t the only place  where decentralization can play a role. Do you remember those  big encyclopedia books we used to rely on when it came to research? Encyclopedia Britannica employed  a hundred full time editors and over 4,000 contributors  to publish what we considered to be the authority on knowledge. Just imagine the power  the editors of these books had in deciding what was worth mentioning,  condemning, condoning or ignoring. Well, the last volume  of encyclopedia Britannica was published in 2010. Today, information is much more decentralized  with over 130 thousand active editors that maintain different Wikipedia pages. The risk of any of them  “going rogue” unnoticed is much smaller since each edit is public  and can be verified by anyone. Decentralization reduces the risk  for corruption, fraud and manipulation. Blockchain technology  is a new and innovative way to implement decentralization. In a nutshell, Blockchain technology is a solution  for the problem of centralization. It’s a system for keeping records  by everybody, without any need for a central authority - a decentralized way  of maintaining a ledger that is practically impossible to falsify. I mean, when so many eyes are watching and verifying everything  that’s being done, it’s really hard  to break the rules unnoticed. You might be wondering  why is it called Blockchain? Well, imagine we’re maintaining  a shared ledger with many pages of records. Each page begins with a sort of summary of the page before it. If you change  a part of the previous page, you’ll also have to change  the summary on the current page. So the pages are actually linked,  or chained together. In technological terms, pages are called blocks. And since each block is linked  to the data of the previous block, we have a chain of blocks, or a blockchain. Many people think  that Satoshi Nakamoto, the mysterious inventor of Bitcoin, created Blockchain technology. Technically he only created the first  real life implementation of it - Bitcoin. In fact, that word blockchain  is never even mentioned in Satoshi’s original whitepaper. The closest he comes  to saying Blockchain is “chain of blocks”. Now that you know  what blockchain technology is, we still have two major questions  to answer - how does it actually work, and is blockchain  going to change our future? Let’s start with the first question. Another way to ask this question  would be - how do I create a system that allows the creation, verification  and updating of records by everybody? Well, there are four elements  a blockchain needs to actually have a life of its own. The first thing required  to support a blockchain is a peer-to-peer network - A network of computers,  also known as nodes, that are equally privileged. It’s open to anyone and everyone. This is basically what we already  have today with the Internet. We need this network so that we will be able to communicate  and share with each other remotely. The second ingredient is cryptography. Cryptography is the art  of secure communication in a hostile environment. It allows me to verify messages and prove the authenticity  of my own messages, even when malicious players  are around. We need cryptography  because of the first element. Remember, I said anyone can participate  in this network - including bad actors. It’s great that I can communicate, but I also need to make sure my communication comes through  unaltered. The third element  is a consensus algorithm. You can switch the technical word  “algorithm” with the word “rule”. This means we need to agree  about rules on how we add a new page, also known as a block,  to our records. There are many types  of consensus rules, in Bitcoin’s case we use a consensus algorithm  known as Proof of Work. This algorithm states that in order for someone to earn the right  to add a new page to our ledger they need to find a solution  to a math problem, which requires computational power  to solve. Computers around the network  run calculations to solve the math problem and in doing so,  consume a lot of energy. In other words they do a lot of work. That’s why when one of them  finds the number that solves the problem  and displays it to the network, they’re basically displaying  a “proof of work”. Think of it as the node’s way of saying: “Hey, I spent quite a bit of energy here  in solving this problem first, so I’m entitled to write the next page”. As I mentioned before, there are other consensus algorithms  that don’t require so much energy, this is just the algorithm type  that the Bitcoin blockchain employs. There are pros and cons  to different algorithms, but in order to run a decentralized ledger  you’ll need to choose one, otherwise it will be really hard  to reach a consensus with so many people in the network. Finally, our last element  is punishment and reward. This element is actually derived  from game theory and it makes sure that  it will be in people’s best interest to always follow the rules. So far, we’ve set up a network  that has a way to communicate securely, and follows a set of rules  for reaching consensus. Now we’ll glue these elements together by giving a reward to people  that help us maintain our records and add new pages. This reward is a token, or coin, that is awarded each time  a consensus has been reached and a new block is added to our chain. On the other hand, bad actors who try to trick  or manipulate the system will end up losing the money  they spent on computational power or their coins can be taken away  from them. In the end, the important thing to remember is that  the punishment and reward system works on psychological behaviour. It turns the rules of the system  from something you need to follow into something you’ll want to follow, since it will be in your best interest  to do so. This was just  a very high level explanation of what a blockchain consists of. If you want to dig a little deeper  into this process, check out our video on Bitcoin mining, part of our 7 day crash course  on Bitcoin. So there you have it, the four elements for creating  blockchain technology - a peer to peer network, cryptography,  a consensus algorithm and punishment and reward. However, there is a fifth element,  that can’t really be synthesized... market adoption. I mean, we can have  a group of five people sharing a ledger  with a consensus algorithm but it doesn’t really make it  decentralized, since not enough people  are a part of the system. Moreover, if there’s no adoption, there’s not really any value to our coin and the fourth element of punishment  and reward isn’t very effective. Only once you achieve critical mass  in the number of users, does a blockchain become  truly decentralized and therefore immutable. And at that point, the coin of that blockchain  usually begins to appreciate in value. It’s hard to say what triggers  mass scale market adoption. In Bitcoin’s case things actually started  through use on the dark web, where people used Bitcoin  to pay for drugs and other illegal stuff. But since then, more people have begun to research  Bitcoin and blockchain, and have seen the benefits they offer; either in practice,  or as an investment. So there you have it, the five elements of a truly open,  public, decentralized blockchain. Up until today there are only a handful of blockchains that have over 1,000  truly independent participants, and as such can be considered  as decentralized - Bitcoin, Ethereum and Monero  to name a few. If you’re thinking that it sounds  like a lot of hard work to put a blockchain in motion, you’re absolutely right. But this is where Ethereum comes in. Ethereum is a Do It Yourself blockchain where all of these five elements  are already in motion. All you need to do is build  the right solution on top of it. But that’s a whole different  whiteboard episode you can check out later on. Now let’s move on to another term  you may have heard - a private, or closed blockchain. This term refers to companies  that screen and limit the players who can participate in their blockchain. It’s a bit like how the Internet, which is open to everybody and anybody, is different from an Intranet - an internal network  of company computers. While I assume some companies will find value  in running private blockchains to improve their internal processes, it’s far from anything exciting inasmuch as it has nothing to do with  decentralization. To emphasize this a bit more let’s compare open, public blockchains  to closed, private ones. A public blockchain is open to everybody, it’s transnational and borderless. It’s censorship resistant,  and it doesn’t require any 3rd party. It’s also neutral - there’s no such thing as a “good”,  “bad”, “illegal” or “legal” transaction, there’s only a “valid” or “invalid” one. A private blockchain on the other hand,  is limited to authorized participants only, and it's governed by a handful of entities. In the words of Andreas Antonopoulos, in most cases of private blockchains you don’t really need a blockchain, you can just share a spreadsheet  between the participants. The whole idea of blockchain  was to decentralize a process through the general public, and that’s exactly the opposite  of what a private blockchain does. The features of a public blockchain,  on the other hand, create enormous benefits. There’s no single point of failure. The records are immutable,  also known as tamper proof. And finally, it’s censorship resistant so you can’t really remove a record  or stop it from getting published - as long as it follows the consensus rules. Before we end today’s lesson we still have  one major question to answer - Is blockchain technology  the next big thing? I assume you may have heard  of different startups that are using blockchain technology  to solve some sort of a problem. In most cases when I hear of such a company  I ask two questions: First, are they using a public  or private blockchain? Since if they're not using  a public blockchain there’s not really anything  very disruptive here. Second, do they even need a blockchain? If you remember  in the beginning of this lesson, we talked about the dangers  of centralization. But these dangers are only meaningful  if there’s a lot at stake. For example, the queue to the pharmacy is managed  in a centralized manner but I don’t really care  since there’s not a lot at stake and it’s actually more efficient that way. Blockchain technology  is very good at decentralizing, but it’s also very inefficient,  slow and energy consuming. For example, Bitcoin’s network  takes 10 minutes on average to confirm a transaction. Not the ideal waiting time  for buying a cup of coffee at a 7-11. The only reason  to choose Blockchain technology as your solution is if your problem  is actually centralization. If you don’t need to decentralize  something, you probably don’t need to use  blockchain technology and are better off  with some centralized solution. In fact it will probably work better. To sum it up, Blockchain technology  is truly disruptive, but at the moment only a handful of use cases  really require it. So the real question is this: at the current moment, is our world ready for more complex  blockchain implementation than what Bitcoin already offers? In the early 2000s, there were a lot of Amazons,  Googles and Facebooks that never caught on  for the changes they presented... Today, many of these blockchain startups  face the same fate. That’s it for today’s episode  of Crypto Whiteboard Tuesday. Hopefully by now you understand  what Blockchain technology is - an open, censorship resistant method  for managing records by everybody, hence making them  practically impossible to falsify. It’s a solution to the problems centralization presents. I also hope that whenever you hear  the term “blockchain technology” in the future you’ll know to take it with a grain of salt  and ask the right questions. You may still have some questions. If so, just leave them  in the comment section below. And if you’re watching this video  on YouTube, and enjoy what you’ve seen, don’t forget to hit the like button. Then make sure to subscribe  to the channel and click that bell so you’ll be notified  as soon as we post new episodes. Thanks for joining me  here at the Whiteboard. For 99bitcoins.com, I’m Nate Martin,  and I’ll see you… in a bit. 