 My name is Dr Tali Rezun, I’m one of the project founders, 4thpillar technologies or short 4thtech implements blockchain-based solutions and facilitates digital transformation for the public and private sector. For three years now we have been developing an upgrade to existing European Union eDelivery, Digital Identity and Notarization solutions by providing a blockchain-based alternative. 4thtech blockchain notarisation service is a by-product of eDelivery protocol and digital identity mechanism and is able to leverage the power of cross-DLT blockchains to facilitate source and time confirmation for digital document notarisation. The 4thtech blockchain notarisation service is capable of; (1) storing and timestamping digital documents; (2) providing the verification of the digital document authenticity, and; (3) providing access and review of the notarised details. The 4thtech document Notarisation is a feature of eDelivery service Before starting the blockchain notarisation process, please check the 4thtech wallet installation and eDelivery video tutorial. After the successful login, the 4thtech application opens. The main two notarisation functions are to confirm content authenticity and timestamp digital documents. After receiving the document to the 4thtech wallet please access the documents tab second submenu View. In the View menu all the received documents are available For Every received document there is a record of the Sender address, Description specification, timestamp and File Checksum. For transferring received documents to your computer, please use the Download button. Document content authenticity option is the second notarisation function and offers invaluable user security feature. Checksum represents the unique content hash that is written within the blockchain transaction. With document checksum match, the receiver can confirm the originality of the send document. The checksum match validates that the document content has not been changed between the transfer. Let's put the notarisation process in the context, after long negotiations Gal Bjorn received the signed final contract from Ann Smith to his wallet. Due to the sensitive nature of the agreement, Gal needs to check the send contract content authenticity. To achieve this, the document checksum needs to be verified. The received document file checksum is located under the document view section Lets copy the checksum Paste the checksum code into the checksum form in the Verify document section under the Verify submenu Drop the received document into the designated dialog and click Verify If the File checksum matches, the document content has not been changed The final notarisation component is the users digital identity confirmation, with the confirmed identity all notarisation requirements are met. Please review the 4thtech digital identity tutorial for further understanding. For more information please refer to project documentation and thank you for using 4thtech solutions. 