 Today we can do so many things online that only a few places actually require our physical presence. Somewhere in the past five to 10 years, going to the bank fell off that list. The question is: What are banks doing to remain relevant even when they're no longer a stop in the middle of our day? The banks that are affected by this mostly are the midsize institutions. The regional and community banks. Can they replicate the offline personalized services that they are known for? Midsize banks are still competing with large banks, but their direct competition is with fintech startups. Platforms that they're instant, they're relevant, they're personalized, and they're human. This is where midsize banks should focus. Banks that are at the forefront of innovation can do much more than just go digital. They will take whatever is possible with 5G to deliver a service that's fast and frictionless. They'll need to build innovative, personalized online services and use primary data as opposed to just secondary data. It's important to understand that whoever owns the primary data owns the customer relationship. When a bank has full visibility into its network, then with edge-to-edge intelligence, it can process data points securely in near-real time. As a midsize bank, you might be aware of your business client's growth. Their revenue is increasing, team expanding. You can cross-reference these data points to build a more accurate and insightful picture about them. For example, giving them a loan to invest in more property, and then they'll connect you to a whole range of partners for renovation, for construction, for legal services. So playing a much bigger role in their customers' lives. No matter where digital experiences will take us, personal banking will stay personal. This way, no matter where the bank's customers are, they'll feel as if they're interacting with a trusted adviser. Someone who knows them, who provides them with what they need without having to go into a bank. 