 Welcome to another MedCram COVID-19 update, and  let's just take a moment to take a look at the   daily new cases worldwide, and we can see here  that if we look at a seven-day moving average, the   amount of daily new cases has never been higher, when we look at it from a worldwide perspective, while we look at daily deaths from a worldwide  perspective, and things have pretty much flattened   out. Still, however, an unacceptable 5,000 deaths  per day and there seems to be a recurring theme, whether you look in the Americas or if you look  in Europe, we see cases escalating, but we're not   seeing the associated deaths as much as we were  seeing in the first wave of this pandemic, and that   has not been lost, and a couple of researchers  who have put forth some peer-reviewed articles   on just that topic. And here's an article titled  "Studies Point To Big Drop In COVID-19 Death Rates."   One of the studies that was authored by Leora  Horwitz, a doctor who studies population health   at New York University's Grossman School of  Medicine, focused on a single health system there   in New York, started out with patients having  a mortality that were in the hospital of 25.6   dropping down to 7.6. And here of course is  the preprint before it is to be published,   and here you can see the telling graph, which  looks at the bi-weekly mortality over time.   These gray bars are the admission  volume, and you can see that over here on   the right y-axis, and here you can see as we go  through time what the unadjusted mortality was   and then you can look at the adjusted  mortality, and in both of these cases,   it is definitely decreasing, so obviously this  would not be answered by increase in testing, because here we have a population in the hospital -- ostensibly at the beginning they were being tested -- and here towards the end they're also being  tested, so this seems as though there is a very   real decrease in the mortality of hospitalized  patients. Here is another table looking at the   demographics and mortality by a week of admission  and clearly you can see here on the right   column the adjusted mortality goes from a high  of 23 percent all the way down here to 8 percent in June. But this is not just happening in the United  States; there's a similar paper that was published   in England about their experience there, and this  one is titled "Improving COVID-19 critical care   mortality over time in England: A national cohort  study, March to June 2020," and here you can see in   the results that the 30-day mortality peaked for  people admitted to the critical care unit in early   April. The peak was 29.1 percent mortality in the  HDU unit, which is again is the "high intensive   unit" and 41.5 for those in the intensive care unit  or the ICU. And there was a subsequent sustained   decrease in mortality risk until the end of the  study period, which was at the end of June and they   noticed that there was a decrease of 11.2 percent  per week in the HDU and a 9 percent reduction in mortality   per week in the intensive care unit to the point  that they concluded that there was a substantial   mortality improvement in people admitted to the  critical care unit with COVID-19 with markedly   lower mortality in people admitted in mid-April to  May compared to those earlier in the pandemic, and   they said that this trend remains after judgment  for patient demographics and co-morbidities, suggesting that this improvement is not due to  changing patient characteristics, but actually it   might be part of effective treatments as part of  clinical trials and falling critical care burden. So what do the authors attribute this to? Yes, it  could be that we're getting better and better at   detecting these patients, finding them, treating  them early, and raising awareness so that these   patients actually seek medical attention earlier. It could also be, as they mentioned here, that there   are standardized treatments and protocols and  things of that nature, and of course, you know, it's always good to make sure that the hospitals  are not filled to over capacity, because then the   quality of care for everybody goes down. Could also  be that the virus is mutating and maybe there's a   softer version of COVID-19 that's going around. Another possibility that's raised by Horowitz   and Mateen is that the factors which are outside  of doctor's control that may be playing a role in   driving down mortality -- for instance, it says here  that Horowitz believes that mask-wearing may be   helping by reducing the initial dose of a virus a person is receiving and thereby lessening the   overall severity of the illness for many patients, and we've covered that, and so it is possible that   people who wear masks may be able to inhale the  virus, but may be doing so in lower concentrations   and therefore giving the patient's immune system  a fighting chance of actually surviving. Finally,   Horowitz says I do think this is good news, but  it does not make coronavirus a benign illness. I think it's interesting and it confirms  what we have been seeing in terms of the   raw numbers. So what do you think? Why are we seeing  a decrease in mortality in hospitalized patients? Remember these patients would be in the hospital  whether or not they were tested, because people   who are short of breath and hypoxic make their  way to the hospitals anyway in most situations.   The next piece of information I want to talk  about is a little more pathophysiological, or basic   science, and is interesting from that standpoint. Let's talk again about NAC. Now a couple of   videos ago, we talked about a study that looked  at intravenous NAC and that when it infused in   COVID-19 patients in the intensive care unit, for  about 24 hours, there was really no improvement   in these patients. Well, here's an article that  looks into intravenous n-acetylcysteine for   a much longer period of time and what happened  to these patients in terms of their inflammatory   markers. So there's a couple things that you  need to know biochemically before we go on. Now you may remember this diagram that we talked  about a number of months ago when we talked about   oxidative stress leading to disease. Again, in the  electron transport chain, we have electrons going   down the electron transport chain finally going  to oxygen, which is the final electron acceptor,   and it accepts four electrons, which turns it into  water, and that completes the electron transport   chain and allows protons to go into the inter  membrane space, so you can make ATP. Well we also   talked about how sometimes these electrons can  be put on incompletely and you can make these   reactive oxygen species -- like superoxide, like  hydrogen peroxide, like hydroxy radicals -- and these   things can cause inflammation. Inflammation can  lead to thrombosis, et cetera, but we also talked about   how the body has ways that are set up to alleviate  this oxidative stress. Things like catalase will   convert hydrogen peroxide into oxygen and to water. Superoxide dismutase converts superoxide into   hydrogen peroxide and oxygen, but more importantly, for our discussion today, glutathione peroxidase   or GSH as I call it, is glutathione because the SH  group is a reducing agent and peroxidase is the   PX. This enzyme glutathione peroxidase can also  reduce very importantly hydrogen peroxide to   water through this enzyme, as you can see here. Well  and that's because it donates a reducing group and   converts this SH into an SS bond and that can  be converted back into a glutathione with an SH   with this enzyme called glutathione reductase, but  that requires an NADPH to convert it into this   reducing agent. So I want to expand this a little  bit, so you can understand a little bit more about   the situation that we have in the early stages of  this pandemic, when in April and May of this year,   especially on the East Coast, it was very early  and they were using hydroxychloroquine at the time   to treat these patients that were coming into the  hospital. Now that's significant because of this   particular type of patient, which is a glucose  6 phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency patient. And let me explain why that's important. So as  we talked about before, hydrogen peroxide is not   something that is typically good to hang around in  the cells, and what we want to do is convert that   as much as we possibly can to water, and the reason  is because hydroxy radicals in general, or in   this case hydrogen peroxide, is a reactive oxygen  species, and that will eventually lead to red   blood cell hemolysis. Now as it turns out there is  some theories to believe that hydroxychloroquine   can exacerbate this reactive oxygen species  at least in some patients, and so this buildup   of reactive oxygen species or hydrogen  peroxide can increase the amount of hemolysis   in patients who are susceptible. Now let's  talk about why these patients might be   susceptible. First of all, again, the enzyme that is  responsible for converting hydrogen peroxide into   water is glutathione peroxidase, and the way it  does that is by taking a GSH and converting it   into a disulfide bond -- so a GS disulfide bond G -- but then you need to be able to recycle this   back to the reduced form, and the way we do that  is with glutathione reductase, and the reducing   agent required for that is something called NADPH, which gets converted into NADP+.  The way you recycle and get back the NADPH that  you use to reduce that is through the enzyme   that it we'll talk about today, which is glucose-6-phosphate-dehydrogenase and that converts glucose- six-phosphate into six-phosphogluconate and, of  course, those of you who are in biochemistry know   that glucose-6-phosphate goes to do glycolysis  which eventually leads to the Krebs cycle, et cetera.   But here's the point of this is that in  patients who have low levels of glucose- 6-phosphate-dehydrogenase, they are not going to  have as much NADPH and therefore they are not   going to be able to reduce this glutathione here  from its oxidative form to its reduced form, and so   therefore what we're going to see is a buildup of  hydrogen peroxide and reactive oxygen species   and lots of hemolysis. Now just so you're aware  there are two building materials that go into   making glutathione. One of those  is NAC the other one is glycine,   Now there's plenty of glycine. It's just an  amino acid that's hanging around in the body. What is a building block that's very important is  NAC, and so the theory is is that if somebody has   glucose-6-phosphate-dehydrogenase deficiency, here you can bypass this deficiency by simply   supplementing the patient with a lot of NAC so  the body can make its own glutathione without   having to use glutathione reductase, and now you  can lower the amount of hydrogen peroxide and   prevent hemolysis from occurring. So the question  is is does NAC help reduce hemolysis in patients   with glucose-6-phosphate-dehydrogenase deficiency? But before we look at that study, I wanted to draw   your attention to a pre-COVID publication,  looking at the effect of hydroxychloroquine   and its use in G6PD deficient patients and  whether or not it causes hemolytic anemia,   So it seems as though the idea that  hydroxychloroquine could cause hemolysis might   be overblown based on those results, because they  found here that of the 275 patients reviewed, only   four percent of the patients were G6PD deficient,  and two of these G6PD deficient patients had   hemolysis during severe lupus flares that occurred  while not taking hydroxychloroquine. In fact there   was no reported episodes of hemolysis in more  than 700 months of hydroxychloroquine exposure   among the 11 G6PDH deficient patients, and so the  conclusion of these authors is that the data does   not support routine measurement of G6PDH levels  or withholding hydroxychloroquine therapy among   African-American patients with G6PDH deficiency. Notwithstanding that, let's turn now to this   article that looked at intravenous NAC in these  patients with COVID-19. And so in this article   they look here at a patient who first came in  with glucose-6-phosphate-dehydrogenase deficiency, and what they're describing here is a severe case  of a patient with COVID-19 who also had G6PD. Now   because this is the early portion of the pandemic, they started the patient on hydroxychloroquine   and for whatever reason the patient started to  have significant hemolysis, and what they found was   that the administration of intravenous NAC  severely curtailed not only the hemolysis but   also the inflammatory cytokines in this patient. Now, of course, you might be saying well that's just   one patient, how do you know that it wouldn't  have been that way if they hadn't given the   NAC intravenously? Well take a look at this  patient and look at the direct bilirubin levels. Basically in this case, direct bilirubin levels are  a surrogate for hemolysis, because when patients'   cells break open and hemolyze, they release  chemicals which are converted into bilirubin. You can see here in this square that the gray bars  are the periods of time when the patient was on   intravenous n -acetylcysteine or IV NAC, and  you can see that whether it's direct bilirubin   or total bilirubin that when the patient  was started on NAC, there was a decrease   in these levels, and then it was when it was  stopped, there was an increase in the levels again, decrease here in the portion of April and then  as we go out here to the end portion of April,   again a start of an increase and then a decrease  once again the IC NAC was started. Here are the   results for c-reactive protein and again here  these infusions of NAC are being given over   multiple days. As you can tell here there is a  ratio known as the neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio, and when this ratio is high, that is not  good. That's showing more oxidative stress, and so they were so pleased with the outcome of  this patient who was actually on ECMO that they   decided to do it to nine consecutive patients  with COVID-19 at the Grossman School of Medicine  at New York University, and what they noticed was  that IV NAC was associated with a decrease in   CRP and ferritin without rebound increase after  discontinuation, but also there were some patients   that had a rebound of inflammation, noted in six  patients following discontinuation of NAC, and so   while the number of patients here is small, what  makes this very statistically significant in these   patients particularly is that there is a time  factor associated with the infusion. In other words, when you start the infusion, the indices go in a  particular direction and then when you stop it   they go in another particular direction. Then when  you restart it again, they go back down and that   is very suggestive that there is a cause-effect  relationship. So you can see here the CRP in some   of these non-G6PDH patients with COVID-19 and  again the gray bars indicate when IV NAC was   instituted. Here's another patient: you can see  here that the ferritin rebounds after the NAC   is stopped and then starts to come back down again  after it is restarted again. Here's another patient   with very similar results. Here's another patient  and yet another one very clearly here the CRP   is going up and then on April 23rd the IV NAC  infusions begin and it comes back down again, and   here's another patient with very similar results. Something interesting about the patient with the   glucose-6-phosphate-dehydrogenase deficiency is if  you'll notice there's a green bar here at the top   and that signifies when steroids were given. The  steroids were given here starting on March 30th   and going all the way through April 15th, but the  gray bars here were when IV NAC was given. You   can see when IV NAC stopped, the inflammatory  markers went up, despite the fact that steroids   were still being given in this patient with  glucose-6-phosphate-dehydrogenase deficiency. Now we don't have the same green bar with the  non-glucose-6-phosphate-dehydrogenase deficiency   patients -- the ones that are just there for COVID --  so it's hard to tell exactly how steroids played   a role in the ups and downs with ferritin and CRP,  etc. with IV NAC. In fact they say here in the   article whether these anti-inflammatory changes  were specific to the use of NAC is difficult   to discern from our study due to sporadic use  of steroids and other anti-inflammatory drugs. However it is conceivable that NAC has beneficial  effects in reducing inflammation in patients   infected with COVID-19. And of course, I agree; our observations warrant prospective studies   to look at the clinical and laboratory effects of  NAC and to evaluate the role of IV NAC if any in   the treatment of severe COVID-19 patients. So  overall you can see here that the CRP levels   before NAC was instituted during IV infusion  of NAC and after discontinuation of NAC.   They have a beautiful slide which hypothesizes  how potentially NAC may interact with the cell and   the virus and how you can mitigate cytokine storm  and the elevated CRP, and of course we'll give you   links to this article in the description below, but  overall very interesting, and i'm looking forward   to more of these studies coming out for those  interested in knowing what dose that they gave   the patient in the first case was started on IV  NAC on March 30th. In this case it was 30,000   milligrams divided into three doses over 24 hours, so that would essentially be 10 grams of an acetyl   cysteine intravenously Q8 hours. In the second  phase they started IV NAC at the 600 milligram   dose every 12 hours and even that was associated  with a reduction in total and direct bilirubin.   So once again, oxidative stress  seems to be an issue that is front   and center in the pathophysiology  of COVID-19 and may be a cornerstone   of therapeutics in the future. Tell me what  you think below, and thanks for joining us. 