 Hi! Today we are going to show you two ways to backup and restore your DejaOffice for Android database. First we will go through the process of making a DejaOffice backup from the PC. Connect your Android device with your PC and mount it as a disk drive. While connecting, make sure to check the file sharing options so that you can see the files on your PC. Now, open the My Computer or This PC folder on your PC You will see all their drives along with your Android device drive Open your Android device folder and open the internal or phone storage folder. Now you can see all the folders and files available on your Android Device. Scroll down and find the "clusb" folder. Open this and inside this folder you should see a file named CompanionLink.db This is your data office database. Now, to back up this database simply copy this database file and save it as some secure location on your PC With your backup stored in your computer you can restore the backup anytime. To do this on a new phone run DejaOffice to create the App data files. Then connect using the same procedure and copy your backup file over the empty data file. Another way to move your file is to use the backup file option in DejaOffice Open the DejaOffice app on your Android device. Tap Settings. Tap logging and support settings. Now you can make a backup file by selecting backup database. To best move your data be sure to click the option s for pictures and attachments. If you want to save the backup on internal storage just select the default storage options. For moving the backup file choose email and press ok select your email account and you can see email template has appeared enter your own email address and send it. You will have the backup on your email If you do not see this in your mailbox the file may be too large on your new phone. To restore from the Email, Download DejaOffice on your new phone and open it to create a clean database. Then go to the email app. Open the email attachment for the backup file and click on it. to restore the data into DejaOffice. DejaOffice is a free app on the Google Play Store it is the only Android CRM app with Outlook sync that lets you enter new data while the phone is offline. Thank you so much for watching this video please like it and share it. Thank you! 