 Welcome, Jason and Quinn. The two of you are going to tell us about our amazing new creator tools. So what do you do on the Minecraft Team? Yeah, thanks Lydia. So I run the Minecraft Marketplace Partner Program. Awesome. Jason, what about you? I am a Developer on the Bedrock Platform Team. Awesome. Before we get into scripting, Quinn, what is Marketplace? Can you give us a refresher? Yeah, totally. So the Marketplace is a great place where you can go and buy, free or buy- and is also a free content too. Skins, Textures, Worlds Mashups, all made by some of our amazing community creators across all of our Bedrock Platforms. That's awesome. Today you're going to tell us about Scripting. So Jason, what is Scripting for everyone in the audience? Yeah. So Scripting is a way for creators to add things to the game that the developers of the game didn't actually plan for. So we do a lot of cool things in add-ons where people are able to take behaviors from the vanilla game, and mix them up in different ways and get quite cool things. But with Scripting, they can do lots of stuff that you'd never see in the vanilla game. That's amazing, and I heard you were quite inspired by NetEase which is our partner in China because they were doing some work on Scripting. Can you tell us about that? Yeah, so they've started doing some Scripting several years ago, and they've got some stuff in it. We're like we have to have that. So we started hooking up. We've done some different tech directions, but it was definitely inspired by them. That's awesome. So you have some things to show us with editor tools first. So let's take a look at some of the new editor tools you have. So this is the first one this is called the "Editor Stick" and what this allows you to do is it basically allows you to take any block and change any of its parameters. So you can go to the wall here and that change it from being yellow to blue, and you can really change any of the different items. So here we can look at the wood where you can change it from oak to birch. It's a great way to you instead of having to replace that block, you can actually just go and change the parameters to be what you want it to be. So it saves a much of time. Another really big time-saver here is you can go in and change the crops to be fully grown. [MUSIC] That's a storm. That's a storm. Well, someone was very happy with that editor tool. Yeah, maybe in the future we should get rid of the mobs before we start the world. So why is that important for creators to be able to move that process along faster? Yeah. Well, the great thing is sometimes you need to be able to like not just have to replace the block, like it gets to take the thing out and put a new one in. Sometimes you're like, "Oh, I actually wanted this to be a different color, or I want the sign to be shifted a different way." It allows you to really quickly make those small tweak modifications for it like a polished pass on the map. It's awesome. I'll give you a chance to try some different colors on different ways to see how it looks. But you also have some things that speed up the process significantly. Yeah. Which we can look at. Yeah. So definitely in a lot of builds that creators make they don't want to just do a single block-by-block change, and they want to do much quicker stuff. Let's look at some of the quicker changes. Yeah, so here there's the TNT one where you can actually go and quickly remove large chunks of the world around you. Just go through and make big holes. It's a great way rough out an area and get it close to what you want, and then come in and fine tune in it. Here's the one that basically makes like a big hallway. So imagine how long that would take destroying block-by-block. When you have these walls, there's sometimes they're like a kilometer by kilometer or much bigger like this can be a huge time-saver for them. Sometimes if you don't want to go build the house block by block, you can actually go and make a TNT that does it for you. [MUSIC] Here this one's great too because it's Minecraft. This is a way to go and build your house in a very Minecrafty way. Instead of just replacing a thing where you place a block down and automatically builds a house. It's a TNT block that explodes and makes it for you. I really like this homey feel. Yeah, that's a great cabin. It's way nicer than I can build. Yeah, me too. It allows you if you're scripting then suddenly you could use those houses and put them everywhere for a build quite significantly quicker. Yeah, you can quickly make a whole town pop-up just by placing bunch of TNT and lighting it with the Redstone or something. It's a really fun way. Those editor tools are awesome. You also have some tools that are helping with game play experiences. Yeah, this is where I get most excited about the possibilities of Scripting. Not just being able to make editor tools or things that make building faster, I've been able to make things that change the entire game play of Minecraft. Not just relying on the vanilla behaviors, but being able to make your own unique behaviors and game play mechanics. So this next clip will show a really, really cool way, a take on that. Yeah, so the creator here he went and made this very quick rope bridge. So he made this cool, he made an item and you can actually just go through and just aim to another point, and it'll just build a bridge for you automatically using a slabs from inventory. Now Endermen have always been able to teleport, but it's a very random teleport, and this was an ability they went and made where you could actually aim at a point in the world, and it will actually cast you to that point and project you there. So it's a superhero field map. So it doesn't just give me the ability to teleport, but also gives you this magic missile of mine blast that you can do to take out all those pesky skeletons that are shooting at you. There's this way that you can change the entire way that you can explore the world. So you can build a city and try and go save all the denizens of the city. There's another feature of this one to where there's this big shield that you can put up that blocks all the different arrows. Very cool. So there's a shield that protects you for about 30 seconds. About 30 seconds, yeah. So creators can use this to create all new and interesting game experiences for players? Yeah. The possibilities are really endless. You have one other cool thing to show us for scripting. What is that, Jason? Yeah, so we've been working on- Minecraft has had the ability to change skins for a long time. You can change the texture on your model. As we're working on that, we're data driving a lot of partisan games where creators could change things, and we made it so that creators could change more than just the texture of the player models. We wanted them to be able to change the actual 3D models, change the animations, add special effects to them, etc, and stuff like that. So I have a video to show off some of the stuff I personally built in this case. So I'm a big fan of penguins. I think penguins are one of the coolest animals. He's been wanting to add these to Minecraft forever by the way. Not yet. So I quickly knocked out a penguin. They're not coming to Minecraft. But I'd knock this out and you can see he's got custom animations, his arms flap out and he moves very different than Steve. Then I replaced the sprint animation with a fun little belly slide, and this is actually a happy accident. I wasn't actually planning for, but the sprint particles are kicking up, and it asks you, it helps sell the slide animation. So it's always fun when those happen as a developer. So what game are you hoping creators make with the data-driven player change? Yeah, so while I was working on this I had this vision of like I want someone to go make a velociraptor where it goes around and eats something. It could be other players. It could be animals or something. So please community, build me a velociraptor game. VeIociraptor. I don't have the art skills to make the velociraptor. You're penguin is pretty cute though. Yeah, he's okay. Quinn, any games you would like to request? I just think like velociraptor is cool but I think a racing game where you could actually transform the player into a sweet car, and have him be able to customize it and then have a bunch of animations of it like drifting around corners and stuff like that. I think that'd be super cool. The cars are penguins. The cars are all penguins. Or velociraptors. Why not both? Penguins riding velociraptors. So how can people experiment with scripting? So it's actually available right now. So you can go download the Bedrock Edition and start messing around with Scripting. There's a bunch of tutorials on the Wiki and across the web that you can basically look at and try and mess around with it yourself. That is amazing. Thank you so much Quinn and Jason. Speaking of cool tech as some of you might have heard, we have an exciting update coming to Minecraft on Windows 10. Ray tracing. As part of our partnership with NVIDIA, ray tracing will be coming soon and available for Minecraft on Windows 10, for DirectX capable GPUs. There's a lot to say there. Let's check it out. [MUSIC] 