 Kyle Allred: Dr. Seheult, you've advocated for  vitamin D as a potential way to prevent COVID-19   infections to prevent severe COVID-19 infections.  You've talked about this for a few months now   and over the past several months, the  evidence continues to grow. There's more   and more publications in peer-reviewed  medical journals about the possible   connection between vitamin D and COVID-19.  So you've put together a presentation for us.  Tell us about what your presentation's all about. Dr. Seheult: Yeah thanks, Kyle. So we've been   talking about vitamin D as a potential  therapeutic agent for COVID-19 since   March, and since that time a lot of other people  have become involved in looking at that agent,   as well a number of research studies have been  done, and the purpose of this is to sort of look   at the evolution and the thinking of the use  of vitamin D in COVID-19. So what we do is we   look back even before COVID-19 and what was the  evidence for vitamin D in acute chest infections,  for instance influenza, and  what was the data there?  And then we look at the epidemiological evidence  for vitamin D as a therapeutic agent in COVID-19,   and then finally moving along to actual cases, hospitalizations, and then we build up   with that hierarchy of evidence with  vitamin D and COVID-19 to randomized   placebo-controlled trials, which of course  are the gold standard for therapeutics. Okay, so let's talk about vitamin D.  The first thing you've got to understand   is that vitamin D is not just a vitamin.  Vitamin D is actually a hormone and if you   notice here by the structure you'll see that  it is a steroid hormone, which means it can   go into the nucleus. It can go through membranes  and make effective changes and, specifically,  the vitamin D receptor is a member of this   nuclear receptor/steroid hormone  superfamily and so, as you can see here,   we have vitamin D going through the membrane  and affecting a binding to the receptor   and then it actually goes into the nucleus,  where it can affect transcriptional change.  This is really important. So this is not just  some vitamin that you need to supplement with;   this is actually a hormone that changes the  way your cells in the body actually behave. Kyle: Is this idea unique to vitamin D  or does this happen with other vitamins? And in addition to that what what are some of the  main differences between a vitamin and a hormone? Dr. Seheult: Good question. So, you know, a  vitamin is actually a shortened version of a   vital amine, vital meaning you need it to live and  an amine is a type of chemical compound. You know,   vitamin D is not even an amine. Of course it's  vital, but it's not as if you need a certain   amount of this substance to just keep the body  going and doing what it needs to do. No I mean   vitamin D is so much more complex than  that. We used to think that vitamin D   was just involved in calcium regulation, and that  is certainly true there's no question about that,  but vitamin D is so much more than  that. It's a fat soluble vitamin,   which means it can pass through membranes  without any problem. It doesn't need to be   regulated. It can bind with the receptor and go  directly into the cellular portion, the nucleus   in fact, and actually cause or prevent  transcription of RNA, and we've seen that there   are vitamin D receptors in numerous cell types,  including  the cell types of the immune system.   So in that sense, it is a hormone but in another  sense, you can only produce enough of this if you   have enough sunlight or if you're taking this in  a dietary supplement form. You can't make this   without sunlight or getting a dietary form, so  in that sense it is vital that you have it, and   in the loose sense it is a vitamin. So to get to  your second question about hormones and vitamins,   hormones are something that the body uses to  signal and to make effect changes throughout   the body. For instance, insulin is  a hormone. Cortisol is a hormone. These things circulate through the body and they   have different effects on  different target tissues. Vitamins are more along the lines of something  that you need as a cofactor or something else to   get something to work, and so in that sense  vitamin d is is certainly a vitamin because   your body needs it in order to live but in other  sense, it's so much more than just the vitamin. So how do you get this vitamin D? I know this  looks a little complicated, but bear with me. The key that you need to understand is that it's  the 1,25(OH)2 vitamin D that's the active form,   and it says here that it does come from the  kidneys, but in fact we now know that the   rate limiting step that puts that one hydroxyl  group on is not just in the kidneys; it's also   in the immune cells, and it can actually  put that on and have effective change in   your immune cells themselves. So let's  talk a little bit about how this happens.   So there's basically two ways you can get vitamin  D into your diet. You can either eat it through a   supplementation, swallow it, you can take pills,  it's also found in fish oil, certain types of   mushrooms, egg yolks, and also red meat, or the  majority of people get vitamin D into their system   from the sun. Why is that? Because ultraviolet B  radiation penetrates down deep into the dermis,  where this cholesterol derivative is converted  into pre-vitamin D3 and then finally into vitamin   D. Now that vitamin D3, after it's produced by the  sun, goes to the liver and the 25-hydroxyl gets   put onto it. This species here, the 25-hydroxy  vitamin D, is what we actually measure in the   blood. Whether you get it from diets or whether  you get it from the sun, there's two ways of   getting it, but this is how we can measure it,  and that's how you're going to see it measured   and reported in the rest of this presentation is  25(OH)D. This is kind of like the storage product   in your body. It's fat soluble, it is stored in  the fat, then when it's needed, it can either   go to the immune system where it's converted  into 1,25(OH)2D, which is the active form,   or it can go to the kidney and it can be  converted there to 1,25(OH)2D. Now the one   in the kidney is usually used for metabolism of  calcium and phosphorus and things of that nature,  but there's a whole other area.  In fact, they found many vitamin D   receptors in the leukocytes or the white  blood cells, your immune cells, in the body. Now, the other thing you ought to know is that  this 1.25()H)2D, which is the active form, can be inactivated when they put a hydroxyl  group ("they" being the 24-hydroxylase enzyme) can inactivate it by hydroxylatin 24 position  could also do it here with 25 hydroxy from the   kidney as well. So this is the inactive form.  There is some evidence and if you want more   information about this, look at COVID-19 update  83 in our MedCram series, and you'll see that high   fructose corn syrup actually can accelerate  this inactivation of both the 125-dihydroxy   vitamin D and also the 25-hydroxy vitamin D to  the inactive form, so that's not to say that   other sugars with fructose couldn't do that, but  that's what the studies showed that we presented   in update 83. So you may be supplementing, you may  be out in the sun, but if you have a diet that's   high in high fructose corn syrup, and I'm not  talking about fructose from fruits and vegetables,   but actually high fructose corn syrup,  that is something that can cause problems   and you may not get enough 125 dihydroxy vitamin  D. We'll put a link to that video number 83.   Okay, so you may ask, "well what's the problem?  I mean, if we just need to go out in the sun and   get plenty of vitamin D, why is this an issue?"  Well, the issue is that if you were to look at   recent studies that look at how often we  here in the United States and, in fact,   around the world spend outdoors, it's actually  pretty small -- 7.6 percent of the day we spend   outdoors. The problem is in the winter time,  the sun gets up late and goes down early, and   also it's not as high in the sky as it should be  to get that direct radiation of ultraviolet B,   and so it's coming at an angle. You don't get very  good exposure and, in fact, for those people who   are living above the 35th parallel or living below  the 35th parallel in the southern hemisphere,   this can be a very significant issue. The  35th parallel, for those who don't know,   sort of runs through the middle of the United  States. Now some suggest that this may be the   reason why we see an increase in viral infections  in the winter time -- whether it's in the northern   hemisphere or the southern hemisphere, winter  time is when you're having less sun exposure. Kyle: But couldn't this also be explained,  could the increase in viral infections also   be explained, by just people spending more  time indoors in close confinement? You know   windows closed and potential for spread that  way, among other potential confounding variables? Dr. Seheult: Yeah, it certainly is possible. One  of the things that goes against that though, Kyle,   is that for instance in the United States in  the winter time, in California, for instance,   southern California, it rarely gets cold enough  that you have to be indoors, but we still see an   increase in spike in influenza during that  time. What is certain though in California and,   this is where the 35th parallel sort of runs  right through southern California, is studies   have shown that if you live above the 35th  parallel, you can't really get enough vitamin D   just by sun exposure in the winter time. So while  it is possible that there could be confounders.   We're seeing the sunlight exposure correlating  with the increase in infectious diseases. I   would note if you look at this graphic from  the CDC in terms of statistics, we see that   in just the very months where we have vitamin D  deficiency is where we have spikes and increases   in influenza, so we've got good data that shows  that a major cause of vitamin D deficiency is   inadequate exposure to sunlight. Also have  good data that we'll talk about that there   is an association between vitamin D and the  BMI, and that patients with kidney disease,   just like we see in COVID-19 can  lose vitamin D3 out of their system. We also have good data that for more than a  century, vitamin D deficiency has been suggested   to increase the susceptibility to infections,  and when you look at the extreme vitamin   D deficiencies, for instance in children with  nutritional rickets, they also had an increased   risk of respiratory tract infections or RTIs, and  as we talked about the seasonality of these RTIs   and low 25-hydroxy vitamin D levels during winter  time has been suggested as the seasonal stimulus   for these infections, and if this is so,  obviously this would be a major public health   factor. And as we talked about, vitamin D may  play an increased role in calcium metabolism;   it may actually play a role as stimulation of the  innate immune system and other immune functions.   As we talked about this VDR, or this vitamin D receptor, has been shown to be present in myeloid   and lymphoid lineage cells, and these are the  cells that are important in fighting off COVID-19, for instance, monocytes and neutrophils. We also  got good evidence that shows that vitamin D may   enhance the expression of human cathelicidin,  which is an antimicrobial peptide which is   of specific importance in host defenses  against, specifically, respiratory tract   pathogens. So one of the things that you've got  to understand right off the bat, and it makes a   little confusing, is that different parts of the  world measure vitamin D or 25-hydroxy vitamin D   in your blood using different units, so throughout  this talk you're going to see 25-hydroxy vitamin D   levels being reported in two types of units:  one is nanograms per milliliter (ng/mL)  the other one is nanomoles per  liter (nmol/L) and, frankly, you're going to see both of those being used,   and I don't want you to get too hung up  on these levels here because a lot of   different organizations have their own  thoughts on what should be deficient,   insufficient, and optimal. This is really just to  give you an idea about where those ranges exist. Sometimes historically they'll ask for  your vitamin D levels to be higher if   they're treating heart disease or cancer, and then  generally speaking, vitamin D levels greater than   100 nanograms per milliliter are just too  high, and you have to be careful when it gets   into that range. Now some other places they'll  measure in something called nanomoles per liter,   and actually if you just want a quick  way of converting you simply multiply   by 2.5 and you'll get these numbers here, which  are a legitimate way of measuring it, but not one   that we're maybe used to. But you might see it, so just make sure when you see studies and   they report 25-hydroxy vitamin D levels that  you're understanding what units they're using,   so you can make sense of it. Okay, so let's take  a look at the evidence. We'll sort of start out   with observational studies and we'll end up  with randomized prospective controlled trials.   So we knew very early on, this is a paper that  was published back in 1985 looking at vitamin   D and age, and what we found was that as you  get older, the ability for your skin to produce   vitamin D3 drops by more than twofold  as you get up into the 70s and the 80s.   The other thing that we knew from a long time  ago back in 2012 is that there is a difference   in terms of vitamin D and race or skin color. Here  you can see the graph looking at different levels   of vitamin D. Here's less than 10 here's 11 to  20, 21 to 30, and greater than 30. And these bars   simply represent white is white, black is  black, and the gray are Mexican- Americans.  This is a study that was  done in the United States,   and what you can see here in this observational  study, greater than 30, which would be considered   to be adequate, the majority of that population  is white. As we go down below 20, in this range,   that the people that make up the majority  of this population are disproportionately   darker skinned people, so this is certainly a  public health issue that needs to be addressed.  Another thing that we've known about for  some time, for about 20 years at least,   is vitamin D and BMI. Of course, vitamin D is a  fat soluble vitamin, and as such it's going to   be stored in the fat. And so if you have a lot of  adipose tissue or fat, then you're going to have a   larger capacity to hold vitamin D, which means  you're going to have less soluble vitamin D to   be used. This is a direct quote from this study,  "because humans obtain most of their vitamin D   requirement from exposure to sunlight, the greater  than 50 decreased bioavailability of cutaneously   synthesized vitamin D in the obese subjects could  account for the consistent observation by us and   others that obesity is associated with vitamin  D deficiency. Oral vitamin D should be able   to correct the vitamin D deficiency associated  with obesity, but larger than usual doses may be   required for very obese patients." Okay, so where  are we right now with vitamin D supplementation?  Currently there's no international consensus.  We know that supplementation of vitamin D can   help in terms of fractures. Now there are  some studies that show that vitamin D may   be associated with increased risk of myocardial  infarction, but in actuality those studies were   related more to calcium supplementation with or  without vitamin D, so not a direct association.  The target for prevention of fractures is around  30 to 40 nanograms per milliliter and that,   if you have levels greater than 150 nanograms per  milliliter, that is associated with hypercalcemia.   So what do people say? There's some people that  say you should take 4,000 international units or   less; some others say up to 10,000 international  units. There's not really a consensus. There are   some recommendations from the endocrinology  society, and we will discuss those. Okay   so let's look at the evidence of vitamin D  insufficiency and deficiency and mortality   from studies that were done not on COVID, but  prior to COVID, but still looking at respiratory   diseases. So here's an interesting study that was  done looking at about 10,000 patients in Germany   with 50- to 70-year-olds. It was prospective,  so that's definitely a positive for this study,   but it was an observational study, so they weren't  intervening here, and look at the years for   follow-up: 15-year follow-up in these patients.  So let's take a look and see what they did.   They measured these patients in Germany  and looked at their vitamin D levels,   and you can see that here on the x-axis. So again  this is in nanomoles per liter, so you have to   divide by 2.5 to get nanograms per milliliter, and  generally they made some cutoffs here. This was at   30 and this here was at 50. And so  they said if you're greater than 50,   then that's good. If you're in the middle portion  that's 30 to 50 nanomoles per liter, then that's  sort of in the middle, and then here you've  got less than 30. That's what they figured   as deficient, and then they just followed them. They just watch them and they see what they did,   and they looked at the death certificates after  15 years in these patients that started to die,   and they wanted to see what  was it that they died from,   and this is what they found: those people that had  vitamin D levels of greater than 50 had a better   survival in terms of respiratory mortality than  those that had less than 30, and of course the 30   to 50 were somewhere in the middle, but definitely  statistically significant in terms of vitamin D  levels predicting respiratory mortality. In  fact, from the study, they said statistically   after adjustment for sex age and season of  blood draw, school education, smoking, BMI,   physical activity and fish consumption, 41 percent  of the variability in respiratory mortality during   this 15-year follow-up period was independently  associated with 25-hydroxy vitamin D levels less   than 50. Well it's one thing to say that somebody  with a specific value has a likelihood of dying.   It's quite another thing to say that number caused  the patient to end up that way. So in other words   there's a difference between association and  causation. That's the first thing that you learn   in medical school when you take epidemiology. So  here is a great meta-analysis that's often cited,   and you should keep an eye on. It was published  in the British medical journal and they did a   meta-analysis. They did a meta-analysis of  many many different studies; they pulled   them together to see whether or not vitamin D  supplementation in non-COVID patients. These   are patients that don't have COVID-19. These  had regular respiratory diseases like the flu   and they wanted to see whether or not vitamin D  supplementation improved mortality, and so they   looked at vitamin D supplementation. They looked  at about 25 randomized controlled trials. These   are very good quality subjects and what they found  was that vitamin D supplementation did reduce the   risk of acute respiratory illnesses. Let's take a  look at that data, so here you can see all of the   different studies that were done in the randomized  controlled trials. Did the studies say yes vitamin   D had a benefit or no vitamin D did not have a  benefit? You can see those here on the right side   showed that there was no benefit or is actually  worsening and those here on the left side show   that there was a benefit when they averaged all of  the patients together in these studies they came   up with this final answer, here, which was less  than one, which showed that there was a benefit.   Let me just quote to you from this study. It was  very large study -- landmark study -- it says,   "our study reports a major new indication for  vitamin D supplementation: the prevention of acute   respiratory tract infection. We also show that  people who are very deficient in vitamin D and   those receiving daily or weekly supplementation  without additional doses experienced a particular   benefit. Our results add to the body of evidence  supporting the introduction of public health   measures such as food fortification to improve  vitamin D status particularly in the setting where   profound vitamin D deficiency is common." So you  can't really underestimate this study. I mean, it looked at 25 randomized controlled trials, put  them in a meta-analysis, and it came up with this   as a final analysis. Here's another  study. This one was done in Japan,   and it looked at a randomized trial of vitamin D  supplementation to prevent seasonal influenza A   in school children, and this was done about 10  years ago. There was 334 school children, each   of them were given either 1200 international units  per day of vitamin D3, or they were given placebo   and the end point was looking for influenza A by  doing nasal swab antigen testing, and what they   found over a winter season was that those subjects  that got the supplemental vitamin D only had a   10.8 percent prevalence of influenza A, whereas  those that got placebo had an 18.6 incidence   of influenza A, and the absolute risk reduction,  simply the difference between those two, is 7.8,   which translates into a number needed to treat of  13. That's a pretty darn low number, which means   that this intervention is pretty powerful, and  you can see here the other related indices here   showing that it was statistically significant. So  clearly here vitamin D supplementation in school   children -- these are children that would not  normally necessarily be at risk for having vitamin   D deficiency -- but even in this population it  was able to reduce the incidence of influenza A.   Okay, so let's talk about COVID itself  and what we started to find out early on   in COVID-19 when we started to research this is  some uncanny similarities between what COVID-19   look like from a biochemical standpoint and what  vitamin D deficiency looks like from a biochemical   standpoint. Now this doesn't prove anything, but  it certainly raises your eyebrows and you start   to look a little bit closer, because what we saw  was that in both conditions IL-6 was elevated,   tumor necrosis factor alpha was elevated, gamma  interferon was elevated in vitamin D deficiency   and also in COVID-19 late in the course.  The Th1 adaptive response was also elevated   late in the course of COVID-19. We see both  ACE2 expression reduced in both conditions   and a hypercoagulability in both, and so that  gave us pause and started to see well maybe   vitamin D may play a role in COVID-19. Kyle: Would you expect vitamin D deficiency to   also mirror other viral infections, or  is this something unique to COVID-19?  Dr. Seheult: No, I think it could also  mirror other types of infections we see this   during this time of year; we see increases in  coronaviruses in general, rhinoviruses, we also   see it in in influenza. The one thing that we  don't see in those other viruses, however, Kyle,   that we do see in COVID-19 is this hypercoagulable  state. It's not as pronounced as we're seeing it   in COVID-19. There was a recent article that was  published in the New England Journal of Medicine,   actually not recent it's been a couple of months  now, that showed that in autopsies in patients   with COVID-19 compared to those who did not  have COVID-19, there was a nine-fold increase   in blood clots in the lung tissue. So  that is something that is very unique   and then when we started to look at the  epidemiology of patients with COVID-19 again, more   eyebrows being raised, here's a pretty powerful  study looking at 17 million, patients specifically   looking at about 10,000 COVID-19 deaths, and what  do we see we see something really interesting.   If you look here at the age group this is nothing  new. We know this that those who are higher in age   are more likely to die from COVID-19, and  you can see here the higher in age we go,   the more risk there is in that category. We  can see that male gender has some risk as well.   Here we see with obesity that as the obesity  level goes up, the risk starts to go up as well,   and here we see again with ethnicity, as we start  to compare to caucasian or white, that all of   these darker skinned races have increased risk  for death in COVID-19. And if you will remember,   these are exactly the same three things that we  saw put people at risk for vitamin D deficiency:   both elderly age, increased obesity, and  darker skin color, and so one has to wonder,   now is this coincidental or is this something  else that we need to investigate? Is it possible   that vitamin D may have a role in the  mortality and morbidity of COVID-19?  Kyle: So that was a great chart that you just  showed about different patient characteristics   and hazard ratios associated with  those patient characteristics,   and I was impressed by it and then I looked  closer and I saw that smoking status, specifically   current smokers was actually a negative risk  factor. Presumably, these patients would have   better outcomes than non-smokers. That made me  question the validity of this data, but what's   your thought on this? How can you explain that? Dr. Seheult: Oh no i don't think it should   make you question at all. You know, early on we  felt that it was the patients with lung disease   that were going to be the ones that were ending up  in the hospital, but clearly that's not the case.   The type of people that we're seeing that are  having severe reactions from COVID are the ones   with cardiovascular disease. This is a vascular  inflammatory condition, not one that necessarily   hurts the lung from a respiratory standpoint.  There's several explanations for this; nicotine   is is a known anti-inflammatory and of course it's  through inflammation that COVID does its dirty   business. There's also well-known in COVID-19 --  uh sorry -- in smoking increases in nitric oxide.   ,Nitric oxide is a vasodilator so it may actually  be beneficial in this sort of a situation.   Certainly not saying that we should go out  and start smoking here, certainly because   there's other problems, but, Kyle, this isn't  the first time that we've had a disease where   active smoking actually improves the outcome of  the disease. I mean look at ulcerative colitis;   that's well known to have a more milder course  in patients who smoke, but it's not a reason to   smoke, but it's not a reason to say that the study  is incorrect. Well then it starts to get even more   interesting, because when you start to look at  countries and you start to look at populations,   we start to see something quite interesting. If we  look at the equator, which is right here at zero   degrees latitude, as we start to move away from  the equator we start to have less direct sunlight,   and we start to see here that populations  as a whole start to increase in terms of the   mortality rates, and let me just read you a quote  from the study that was published here in just   April. It says, "when mortality per million  is plotted against latitude, it can be seen   that all countries that lie below 35 degrees North  have relatively low mortality. Thirty-five degrees   North also happens to be the latitude above  which people do not receive sufficient sunlight   to retain adequate vitamin D levels during the  winter. This suggests a possible role for vitamin   D in determining outcomes for COVID19. There are  outliers of course -- mortality is relatively   low in nordic countries -- but there vitamin  D deficiency is relatively uncommon, probably   due to widespread use of supplements. Italy and  Spain, perhaps surprisingly, have relatively high   prevalences of vitamin D deficiency. Vitamin D  deficiency has also been shown to correlate with   hypertension, diabetes, obesity, and ethnicity --  all features associated with the increased risk of   severe COVID19." And here is another paper along  the same lines. This one published in May of 2020,   titled "The role of vitamin D in the prevention  of coronavirus disease 2019 infection and   mortality." So this study looked at 20 European  countries looked at specifically the average   vitamin D levels, looked at COVID cases and  also COVID mortality, and this of course was   as of April of 2020. So they looked at these  20 different countries and what they found was   an inverse relationship with this r and p value  that showed that the higher the vitamin D levels   of that country, the lower the COVID-19 cases per  million population. You can see there a fairly   straight line going through this plot. So once  again, these are nanomoles per liter, so you need   to divide by 2.5 to get nanograms per deciliter.  Now this is for cases, what about mortality?   Well they did the same thing for mortality and  it was very very similar, so again mean vitamin D   levels that were very high had almost zero percent  mortality, whereas those that were very low, like   around 40 to 50 in this situation, had a higher  mean COVID-19 mortality per 1 million population.  Okay, well, what about these patients  specifically? Here's a paper that was published in   nutrients, and it looked at 107 patients that were  hospitalized in Switzerland, and what they did was   they looked at the vitamin D levels in those  patients that were positive for SARS-CoV-2 and   those that were negative for SARS-CoV-2, and what  they found was that those that were negative for   SARS-CoV-2 had higher vitamin D levels than those  that were positive for SARS-CoV-2, and this was   statistically significant, but of course again,  this is an association and not necessarily a   causation. We see that it's associated with a low  vitamin D level. It's possible that the SARS-CoV-2 infection may be causing the vitamin D levels to  go down, and that was the subject of a letter to   the editor titled "Vitamin D deficiency in  COVID-19: Mixing up cause and consequence,"   and what they were able to show here in about  nine subjects when they gave lipopolysaccharide   to healthy volunteers, which is another way of  inducing the immune system, is that they found   that plasma vitamin D levels did in fact drop  slightly, and if you look here at the scale it   was on the order of maybe about five points.  They were able to show that when somebody has   an infection or is undergoing an immune  response their vitamin D levels can drop   and so it is possible but this is a modest drop  here. Something that we ought to keep in mind   as we go forward now of course the SARS-CoV-2  infection may cause a vitamin D level to go down,   but only after you've been infected. What  about those people that have had vitamin D   levels checked well prior to them getting an  infection? Well here's a study that looked at low   plasma 25-hydroxy vitamin D levels as an  associated risk of increased COVID-19 infection,   and what they showed here they took 14,000  subjects with at least one test for COVID-19   and a previous vitamin D, and what they found  was that they had to exclude about 6,000 of   them because they did not have a former vitamin D  level and so 7,800 of them had a test for COVID-19   and had a vitamin D level on record, and they  were able to show that about 10 percent of these   patients had positive COVID-19 tests and about 90  did not, so what did they show here? They divided   levels of vitamin D at around 30, and so these  are the people that were low here on the left and   these are the people here that were normal. Notice  that there was a big gap here, not a lot of people   who were elderly and had normal vitamin D levels.  I found that very interesting, and when you look   at this scattergram, you'll see that the majority  of the patients were actually in the lower amount,   so they were less than 30. So this is not like an  insignificant or rare problem. So this flow chart   may look confusing at first, but if you look at  this the point, is it's just a tiny amount of the   normal vitamin D levels that make up a  portion of the positive SARS-CoV-2 population.   Here is another article as well from Israel that  showed that low plasma 25-hydroxy vitamin D levels   were associated with an increased risk of COVID-19  infection. This was a population-based study,   again looking at baseline vitamin D  levels not ones that they were obtaining   after they developed COVID-19 or had a COVID-19  test, and what they showed when adjusted for age   and demographics and comorbidities that vitamin  D levels of 75+ compared to less than 75 had a   significant difference in terms of whether or  not these patients would have either a SARS-CoV-2   infection or a COVID-19 hospitalization. In other  words, if it was less than 75, they were 1.45   times as likely to get an infection and almost  two times more likely to get hospitalization. So   again this is in nanomoles per liter, so you have  to divide by 2.5 to get nanograms per milliliter,   and here is yet another link between vitamin  D deficiency and COVID-19 in a very large   population, this time looking at 52,000 matched  to 524,000 controls that was matched for sex,   age, and geographical location, and what they  showed here, this bell-shaped distribution in red   are the SARS-CoV-2 positives and of course,  everybody else in gray, and there's definitely   a shift to the lower values of vitamin D and  here in females, it even made a bigger impact,   the lower levels were definitely associated with  SARS-CoV-2 positivity. How do you explain that?   yeah it's hard to say. Obviously, the  differences between men and women are very,   very large in terms of of hormones and  things of that nature, although it wouldn't   be surprising if they found out that it had to  do with hormone levels. Recently they've been   releasing information about pregnant  women in COVID and that pregnant women   have a increased risk of severity and of course  pregnant women have elevated estrogen levels,   progesterone levels, and so the question is,  why is that the case? We don't know, but it   could be that it's accentuated in pregnancy.  Obviously when they're not pregnant, there is a   baseline elevation in estrogen. We're not  seeing that in a baseline situation, but   it could affect vitamin D because vitamin D once  again, just like estrogen, just like progesterone,   is a steroid hormone, so don't have a good answer  for that at this point, and not to be outdone,   the United States also published theirs. This was  a whopping study of almost 200,000 de-identified   test results from clinical laboratories looking  at vitamin D levels and SARS-CoV-2 positivity,   and so when you look at this, overall you can see  very clearly that vitamin D levels are inversely   related to SARS-CoV-2 positivity rate with  the lower levels being associated with being   positive for SARS-CoV-2, and you can see that it's  around 50 where it starts to take off and go up,   and when they looked at this to  see whether or not something was   generating this -- any particular part of  the country or age or anything like that -- they found that it really did not matter in  terms of geography, that there was still the   same relationship as you went down in vitamin  D levels, there was an increase in SARS-CoV-2   positivity rate, but interestingly, there were  higher rates of SARS-CoV-2 in the northern region   of the United States, above the 35th parallel,  whereas in the central and southern states,   it was relatively low, but the relationship still  existed. This also existed in terms of race,   so it didn't matter what race you were: if  you had lower vitamin D levels you had an   increased risk of SARS-CoV-2 positivity, but  again, the darker skinned races had a higher   risk of SARS-CoV-2 positivity with respect to  the white baseline. Here in this case in terms of   age, again it really didn't matter whether age  was greater than 60 or less than 60, and here   ironically it was higher in the younger age,  because we know that SARS-CoV-2 positivity is   more prevalent in the younger populations,  but hospitalizations are more prevalent in   the older populations, and then of course again,  it didn't matter whether you're male or female,   as your vitamin D levels go down your SARS-CoV-2  positivity goes up again this is showing an   association, not necessarily a causation. Kyle:  That data looks impressive when it's charted out,   and it looks like there's a clear correlation  between vitamin D levels and COVID-19 infections,   but this is observational data, and you've talked  a lot about in your COVID-19 updates about how   observational data is really  limited in a lot of ways, and it   really needs to be backed up by randomized  placebo-controlled prospective trials. Could it be   that people that have higher vitamin D levels  are also the people that are more likely   to take better care of themselves in  general? They're more likely to get outside,   maybe they're healthy enough to actually get  outside and get some natural sunlight. Maybe   they are people that are engaged enough in their  own health to actually take vitamin D supplements,   eat a healthy diet in the first place. Dr. Seheult: Well on the surface it's   certainly possible. Yeah those  people in the middle class who   have the ability to get outside are probably  the ones also that are going to take time   and take care of themselves, but you know  you also have to take into consideration   that this study is looking at everybody, not just  those who go outside because they choose to go   outside, but those people who go outside because  they have to go outside, because they're laborers,   because that's part of their job. They have  no choice but to go outside and I would say   that those probably outnumber those that go  outside by choice, because it's a health issue   and even those patients who probably aren't taking  care of themselves as well as middle class people   might be doing, they also, it seems as they fit  into the same data, have an improvement as well,   and here is another study that was published this  time with 105 patients that were hospitalized with   COVID-19, and what they wanted to look at here was  progression. So of 105 patients that were admitted   with COVID-19 type symptoms, they found that those  that were negative represented about 33 percent   and those that were positive represented 66.7  percent, and as you can see here the average   vitamin D level was lower in those positive  SARS-CoV2 patients and higher in the negative   patients. So here, ostensibly, they're having the  same immune reaction, because they're coming with   the same symptoms, but in this situation it is  this group that is SARS-CoV-2 positive, and they   have lower vitamin D levels. Now when you look at  that and break it out and you see if their levels   were less than 30 or greater than 30, those that  had greater than 30 had lower peak d-dimer levels.   Why is that important? D-dimer is considered to be  a risk factor for getting blood clots in COVID-19.   Also if you'll notice here that is the higher  vitamin D levels here that had a lower incidence   of ventilator requirements. Okay so what does this  study show? It shows that potentially vitamin D   levels are associated with a worse outcome or  worse course of SARS-CoV-2 in the hospital.   Here's another study looking at the very same  thing in terms of vitamin D levels in the   hospital and outcomes, and you can see that when  they divided the patients between vitamin D, less   than 12, which is pretty low versus greater than  12, you can see here that the survival probability   in these patients when they set it to 12 was a  huge difference in terms of survival probability.   When they changed it to 20, you can see also there  was still a difference in survival probability,   but not to the same degree, and of course they  followed them out for about a hundred days in this   trial. So once again, vitamin D levels seem to be  associated with a worse progression of the course   of COVID-19 in the hospital. Okay, so up to this  point we've been talking about how vitamin D is   associated with bad outcomes, but that doesn't  say necessarily that it's the cause of the bad   outcomes. You have to be very, very careful  when you say that something is associated with   something, because it could be due to any number  of co-founders, right? It could actually be that   SARS-CoV-2 reduces the vitamin D level and we've  shown that that's the case acutely at least,   but not necessarily chronically. It could be  that there's another factor that's causing both   a susceptibility to SARS-CoV-2 infection and also  a vitamin D level, and so if you just change the   vitamin D level, that won't necessarily make the  SARS-CoV-2 any better, so we have to establish   then by doing a randomized controlled trial or  interventional trials to show that if you give   vitamin D to somebody who is either pre-COVID or  in COVD, that you can get better outcomes, and   that's exactly what they tried to do here in this  Spanish study that was published just in October   of 2020. It is titled the "Effect of calcifediol  treatment and best available therapy versus best   available therapy on intensive care unit admission  and mortality among patients hospitalized for   COVID-19: A pilot randomized clinical study." So  what is calcifidiol? This is important for you to   understand what that is. Calcifediol is the 25- hydroxy vitamin D3. This is not what you normally   take as a vitamin D supplement, because when  you take a vitamin D supplement, it has to be   metabolized in the liver as we mentioned and have  the 25-hydroxyl group put on it. Here, calcifidiol   already has the 25-hydroxy group on it, so it  doesn't need to be metabolized, it's ready for the   one hydroxylase enzyme to activate it and for it  to be used. So it kind of speeds up the process,   and in this situation what they did was they took  patients with COVID-19 and randomized them to  not receive calcifediol. So this is the  placebo group, or receive calcifediol,   this is the intervention group, and what they  found was that in the calcifediol group, and so   just so you're aware that they gave them a pretty  high dose on day one, then they gave it to them a   few days later, and then again on day seven. What  they found was that in the intervention group,   only two percent of those patients went to the  intensive care unit, whereas in the placebo group   50 of those went to the intensive care unit. Now  something you should understand is that this had   a total of 76 patients in it. 76 patients is not  that much but I know that they are planning on   doing a much bigger clinical trial with about  a thousand patients, and here is another study   that is really interesting because at least here  I guess in France what they do is every two to   three months, they give about 80,000 international  units of vitamin D in these nursing home patients,   so when these nursing home patients started  to be admitted to the hospital with COVID-19,   they asked the question: did this patient get  this 80,000 units within the last month or has   it been longer than a month since they got it? And  for those patients that had gotten it within the   last month, they had a much better survival than  those that had gone further than a month out, and   this was 66 patients in this cohort, so sort of a  quasi-experimental study, because of the situation   that these patients were in. Some have been given  recent vitamin D supplementation and some hadn't,   and when they looked at that, there was a  statistically significant difference, as you   can see here, p of 0.002. Well here was another  study. This was a multi-center, double-blinded,   randomized control trial and interestingly here,  they looked at 240 patients, which is not small,   but what they did give them was on admission a  whopping dose of 200,000 international units of   vitamin D3 or placebo, and what they wanted to see  if there was any difference in clinical outcomes.   Well if you look here over on the right you'll see  that the blue group was the intervention group.   That was the one that received the vitamin D,  and you can see that there was a statistically   significant increase in their circulating  25-hydroxy vitamin D levels in the placebo   group. There was no difference, and so despite the  fact that their circulating levels of vitamin D   went up, there was no differences in clinical  outcomes including mortality or ventilator days.   A couple of criticisms of the  study is they only gave one dose,   and why is that a criticism? Well if you  look at that original British Medical   Journal meta-analysis that we talked about  at the beginning of the video, they made a   point of saying that it was basically repeated  doses on a daily basis or on a weekly basis,   not bolus dosing, that seemed to help. The  second criticism is that even in medications   that we give that we know work like antibiotics  and bacterial infections, we don't just give   one whopping dose of antibiotics and hope that  they improve. The other thing was that this was   given rather late. Remember that the vitamin D3  has to be metabolized in the liver to the 25- hydroxy vitamin D, and that can take some time  as well. The most recent study that's come out   though was this one from India titled "Short term,  high-dose vitamin D supplementation for COVID-19   disease: a randomized, placebo-controlled trial."  This is also known as the shade study and here   they looked at 40 COVID-19 positive patients and here they gave 60,000 units daily for seven days   and they gave 24 patients placebo, so the total  here was 16 got the intervention, 24 controls got   the placebo, and in terms of their outcomes, they  were looking at how many of them were SARS-CoV-2   negative by day 21 and were there any biomarker  reductions, and so the results were that 62.5   percent versus 20.8 percent were SARS-CoV-2 negative by day 21 in the intervention group,   and those that got vitamin D and fibrinogen, which  is a surrogate for inflammation was significantly   decreased in the intervention group as well,  and while we're on the topic of critically   ill COVID-19 patients and inflammatory markers  here's a study that was just published in November   looking at just that with vitamin D levels you see  here that there was a group A that was admitted to   a hospital. These were basically people who were  asymptomatic for the 12 days. These patients were   admitted to the hospital, but to an isolation ward  not because they needed hospitalization and group   A are those asymptomatics that were there for 12  days with no symptoms, and there was a total of   91 of those patients. The B were those that were  admitted to the intensive care unit; there's about   63 patients of those a total of 154 in the study;  you can see here those patients with greater than   20 nanograms per milliliter of vitamin D were  much more prevalent in the asymptomatic group, and   those that had serum 25-hydroxy vitamin D levels  less than 20 were predominant here in group B,   and we can see that those patients that had low  vitamin D levels had significantly higher il-6   had almost statistically significantly  higher tumor necrosis factor alpha, and   had higher serum ferritin levels, which is also  a surrogate for inflammatory markers in COVID-19.   Secondary endpoint was low vitamin D levels  in fatality rates, and there was a really big   difference between those that had low vitamin D  levels and those that had normal vitamin D levels,   and this led the authors to state this: this  all translates into increased mortality in   vitamin D deficient COVD-19 patients. As per the  flexible approach in the current COVID-19 pandemic   authors recommend mass administration of vitamin D  supplements to populations at risk for COVID-19."   So what about it? What about supplementation  of vitamin D? Are you taking it seriously? Well   even before COVID-19, certain countries were  taking this seriously and here's a review that   was done out of Helsinki, Finland, titled "Vitamin  D fortification of Fluid Milk Products and Their   Contribution to Vitamin D Intake and Vitamin D  Status in Observational Studies." There's a number   of different countries and they have different  approaches. For instance, in Finland, the type   of fortification in their food is voluntary,  but as it turns out, everybody's doing it, and   so it's as if it were mandatory in Norway. It is  voluntary in Sweden. It is mandatory in Canada. It   is mandatory, however, in the United States. It's  voluntary, so some manufacturers of fluid milk,   acidified milk, and cultural milk, and even  yogurt, do put vitamin D in those foodstuffs.   However, in Ireland, they do not and this is what  one of the commentators on the Irish longitudinal   study on aging had to say about vitamin D in their  study. They say Ireland does not have any formal   vitamin D food policy. We practice a voluntary,  but not mandatory food fortification policy   where food manufacturers can decide to fortify  or not their food products with vitamin D. The   vitamin D status of those in Ireland is lower  than either the United States or Canada, who   have systemic mass vitamin D food fortification.  However, vitamin D deficiency is not inevitable   in older adults in Ireland and the ability to  have sufficient vitamin D status year-round   is an achievable goal that many countries  meet. For example, another European country,   Finland, which is at a much higher latitude and  therefore receives less sunshine than Ireland,   has virtually eliminated vitamin D deficiency  in its population with rates of less than one   percent. This is due in part to a successful  food fortification and vitamin D supplementation   policy and educating the public and medical  practitioners on the importance of vitamin D.   This vitamin D success story demonstrates  what could be achieved in Ireland.   It can happen in other places as well. Okay,  so when it comes to supplementation, let's see   what the guidelines are. This is the endocrine  society clinical practice guidelines that were   published back in 2011, and of course we'll give  you a link to this in the description below.   And if you look under the heading, recommended  dietary intakes for vitamin D for patients at   risk for vitamin D deficiency, and you go on  down to the bottom, you'll see here, under 2.6,   their recommendations. And let's go over what  those recommendations are as you can see,   unless you're a child then basically what they're  saying is that 4,000 international units a day   for anyone greater than 8 years of age is the  upper limit for supplementation with vitamin D   without medical supervision. So another  question is exactly what are they worried about?   What is the frequency? What is the relevance  of vitamin D toxicity? Well to get a better   understanding of that, we go to a publication  in Frontiers in Endocrinology out of Poland,   and in this article, it states that the  Endocrine Society and the Institute of Medicine   have both stated that vitamin D toxicity is  extremely rare, and that concentrations usually of   25-hydroxy vitamin D have to exceed 150 nanograms  per milliliter, which is 375 nanomoles per liter,   and not only that, there has to be increased  calcium intake, and so because it's very rare.   It's led them to state that they believe that  vitamin D is probably one of the least toxic   fat soluble vitamins, much less toxic than  vitamin A, and a researcher, Didenkov, looked at   20,000 serum 25-hydroxy vitamin D samples  at the Mayo Clinic from 2002 to 2011 to look   and see whether or not there was actually any  evidence of vitamin D toxicity, and out of those   20,000 only one patient with a 25-hydroxy vitamin  D concentration of 364 nanograms per milliliter,   which is a whopping 910 nanomoles per liter,  was diagnosed with hypercalcemia. Similarly,   another researcher looked at healthy adults in  a clinical setting that were receiving 50,000   units of vitamin D2 every two weeks, which is  approximately equal to 3,300 international units a   day for up to six years, and their concentrations  were only 40 to 60 nanograms per milliliter   and they had no evidence of vitamin D toxicity.  This also goes along with a study in Canada   where they researched Canadians taking up to  20,000 international units of vitamin D3 per day,   and they had significant increases of 25-hydroxy  vitamin D concentrations up to 60 nanograms per   milliliter, but again without any evidence of  toxicity. So it looks as though based on that   data that supplementation is relatively  safe, but how much should you supplement,   and does it make a difference about your BMI?  Well, this was an interesting article that was   published titled, "The Importance of Body Weight  for the Dose Response Relationship of Oral Vitamin   D Supplementation and Serum 25-Hydroxyvitamin D in Healthy Volunteers." In relation to this   study, they took 17,000 patients and looked at  vitamin D levels, and there was a wide range   of vitamin D levels in this population  anywhere from four nanograms per milliliter   to 158 nanograms per milliliter, and people were  supplementing anywhere from nothing to 55,000 international units a day, and what they found  was pretty interesting. They found that early on   supplementation per thousand international  units brought up people's levels pretty quickly,   but then as the amount of supplementation started  to go up, the levels started to go up more slowly,   such that in the first thousand units that  you take as a supplement, each thousand units   would increase the level in your  blood by 4.8 nanograms per milliliter,   but if you got up to the 10,000 range or the  50,000 range, even 15,000 to 20,000 range,   1,000 units would only raise it up by  about a tenth of that, or 0.4 nanograms   per milliliter, so in other words down here, a  thousand international units when taking a low   amount would raise your level by 4.8 nanograms per  milliliter, but if you're already taking a large   amount, each additional increase by a thousand  international units would only raise it by about   a tenth of that, so you can see that there is  definitely a non-linear relationship there.   Furthermore, BMI also had a lot to play in  this as well. So for those that are normal BMI,   and that by definition is less than 25, and  then you have overweight, and that is 26 to 30,   and then you have obesity, which is 30 plus. What  they found in comparison to a normal BMI was,   first of all, generally overweight people were  on average three nanograms per milliliter less   in terms of their serum vitamin d, and that obese  patients were eight milligrams per deciliter. Now   it it gets even more complicated there, because  what they found was that it took more vitamin D   to get them up to a regular level than would be  expected if they were overweight or obese. In   fact, their recommendations is that for people who  are overweight they should take 1.5 times what is   normally recommended to get their vitamin D levels  up, and for those that are obese, have a BMI of   greater than 30, it actually is 3.0 times as much,  and that might be related to the fact that vitamin   D, of course, is fat soluble. So there are a lot  of things to take into consideration and this is a   moving target. Also take under consideration  the fact that currently we are moving into   winter months, but again these all need to be  parsed with the season and weight and age and   all of those sorts of things that we talked about.  Now while this is a distribution of vitamin D in   Germany. I'm sure it's not very different  from what it is here in the United States,   and as you can see 50 millimoles per liter  is really on the low side, and that would   correlate with about 20 nanograms per milliliter.  So you can see here how significant that severe   deficiency in 25-hydroxy vitamin D can  be. There is a number of people that are   at deficiency based on this. I feel not only is  there a role for all of us to be taking vitamin D   supplementation at least during the winter months,  but I also feel strongly that practitioners in the   hospital may want to look at this in terms of  their treatment of patients in the hospital.   Now I do not have randomized controlled trial data  yet, conclusively, that shows that this works,   but if we look at the risks of vitamin D  supplementation and the potential benefits,   I think the benefit-to-risk ratio is high. Dr. Fauci himself is supplementing with vitamin D,   and while there are certain groups of people that  should be very careful with supplementing with   vitamin D, such as patients with sarcoid or other  granulomatous diseases, or patients with renal   issues, without discussing at first with their  doctors, I do see a role for supplementation,   especially in this winter season when COVID is  running rampant. I can't tell you as an individual   how much vitamin D to take, because I'm not your  doctor, and I'm not here to give you medical   advice, but I am still taking 5,000 international  units daily, and when I had my levels checked,   when I was taking 2,000 international units daily,  my level was only 48 nanograms per milliliter,   and I am living in sunny southern California. I  plan on making more videos about what I am doing,   and what I think we should all be doing in terms  of protecting ourselves from COVID-19. Please   share this with as many of your loved ones as  possible, because I think this could potentially   be beneficial in our fight against COVID-19, and  for more information, visit us at MedCram.com. 