 Hello, and welcome, new investors. My name is Cameron May. And if you've never even placed a trade before, you're in exactly the right place. We're going to be talking about how to get to where we're placing our very first stock trade. To do that, we're going to talk about what a stock is. We're going to talk through a potential strategy for selecting a stock for investment. And we're going to show you how to place that trade on the TDAmeritrade.com website, including a buy order and a seller. So let's get started. First, what is a stock? When you buy a share of stock, what you're actually doing is accomplishing a partial ownership of a publicly traded company. For example, if you buy a share of McDonald's, you're becoming a partial owner of that company. These shares are bought and sold in a marketplace called an exchange, and prices are set according to the changes in supply and demand for those shares. Second, why invest in stocks? On a really basic level, you stand a chance to profit if you're able to purchase the shares at a lower price. And then if they appreciate, you can sell them at a higher price. This might allow the investor to grow their money faster than just saving. And in any event, it could put us in position to stay ahead of the decaying impacts of inflation. So there are lots of ways to pursue stock investing. We'll focus on ways to identify individual stocks with potential for high growth over the next few months to a year. Now, picking individual stocks isn't for everybody, but for those with the time and knowledge to do the research, it can be a way to pursue portfolio growth. Someone who may not have time to really research companies and keep up with the markets may be better off with a more passive investing style, like index funds. There are four essential decisions when it comes to buying a stock. First of all, we have to discuss what to buy. Then we need to explore when to buy. We need to determine how much to buy, and we have to have a plan for when to sell. Let's get to our first decision, what to buy. When it comes to deciding what to buy, it's pretty research-heavy, but it's also where you should spend most of your time in this process. Now, due diligence can't completely protect you from an unexpected market turn since gains are not guaranteed. But it can make sure you know exactly what you're investing in. After all, Warren Buffett says to never invest in something you don't fully understand. Investors can use a process called fundamental analysis to better understand a company. You look through a company's financial statements like balance sheets to determine if it's a good investment. Think of it like looking under the hood. To make sense of the financials, you can look at several ratios and numbers. These can help you answer basic questions, like, is this company growing, and help you compare companies of different sizes. We're only going to look at a few numbers, so keep in mind, this is not a complete list. It's just a sampler of some ratios you can look at to get you started. First up, we'll look at EPS growth rate. EPS stands for earnings per share, which tells you how much a company is profiting for every share of stock. For example, if a company reported $1 million in earnings and had 100,000 shares of stock, its EPS would be $10. Growth in EPS over time can show a company's profitability is growing. Let's say a company has an EPS of $10 per share in 2018, and in 2019 they had an EPS of $12. The annual growth rate for that company would be 20%. This suggests the company is growing, especially if EPS has grown over multiple years. Next, we'll look at return on equity. ROE may help a prospective investor address a simple but potentially important question. If I'm considering investing in this stock now, how has this company performed for previous investors? The return on equity is net income of a company divided by the shareholder equity. Shareholder equity is a company's assets minus its debt, so the ROE could be considered the company's return on its net assets. Basically, it measures how effective a company is at turning its assets into profits. Let's say a company has had a net income of $10 million last year. Let's say it has $50 million in assets and $20 million in debt. You take the 10 million and divide it by assets minus debt, so 30 million. That would mean this company has an ROE of 33%. The higher the ROE, the more effectively the company is able to make profits from its assets, which could mean more growth in the future. Next, let's think about profit margin. Profit margin may indicate to a prospective investor just how good of a job a company is doing at turning sales into profits. Can it keep costs low and provide room for strong earnings? The profit margin measures how much of a company's revenue it keeps as profits. It's typically shown as a percentage. So if a company profited $100,000 off of $1 million in revenue, it would have had a profit margin of 10%. Higher profits often mean more potential for future growth. So now that we understand these analytical metrics, how does an investor find companies with strong EPS growth, ROE, and profit margins? Let's go to the website. Now we need to find stocks that seem to fit those characteristics. So how do we do that? Well, here on a TD Ameritrade account, we find ourselves on the home page on the My Account Overview page. And we're going to navigate up to find stocks. We're going to go to the Research and Ideas tab and then down to the Screeners and go to the word Stocks. So I'm going to click right on that link, and that's going to take us right to the Screeners tool. And from here, I'm going to click right on Create a Screen since we're going to be creating a screen from scratch that's going to look for the stocks that are exhibiting those three characteristics that we're interested in. So here we are on the Create a Screen page, and we're going to turn our attention to this left column. This has broad categories that we can select our criteria and then enter specific metrics. Now, here, I'm going to take a bit of a left turn, and I'm going to add a new criteria. And I'm doing this for a very specific reason. I want you to understand that there is flexibility in the approach to investing, even within growth. You should feel comfortable as you get comfortable with your own approach to investing to add your own criteria. So we're going to add a criteria known as market capitalization. So what is market capitalization? Very simple concept. It describes how big the publicly traded company is. We have some companies that are small, some companies that are large. The way that these are identified is we take the current price per share and multiply that by the number of shares that are trading in the public. So if we had a stock that's trading $100 per share and there are 1 million shares trading, we'd say that that's a market capitalization of $100 million. That might sound like a lot, but that would still fall in the small capitalization category. And that's what we're going to select for our example today. So think about what a growth investor is looking for. They're hoping for price to appreciate, to go up. A small cap stock conceptually may have more room to the upside. So we're going to select small cap. Obviously large cap companies can also grow in size and in price. So that's one criteria that we've selected. What I want you to note, though, is we started with over 11,000 companies. And just by selecting small cap, we've narrowed that down to just 8,000. So let's go add our other three criteria and see if we can narrow that down even further. Those three that we've been discussing, as you now know, our fundamentals. So I'm going to go to the Fundamentals area, and let's start with earnings per share growth. Now, a handy feature of the search tool is that it gives us the average earnings per share growth over a specific time frame. By default that's the last quarter. I'm going to switch this to the last year. And we can see that in current market conditions, the average company has actually been struggling to a negative EPS growth of 12.56%. As a hypothetical growth investor, let's say that we're looking for positive growth, and we're going to dial up that even a little bit more. Let's enter a specific requirement. We're going to go to the Enter Specific Values and look for stocks exhibiting EPS growth over the last 12 months greater than or equal to 10%. So this is setting that bar quite a bit above the current average, but you can see there are still 3,300 companies achieving or exceeding that bar. Next, let's go to return on equity. Here's our ROE, and we can see that that average is also automatically published right here, 4.90% currently. So what might a growth investor be looking for? Well, they might be looking for above average return on equity. Maybe that might be a minimum threshold. Let's enter that as a specific value requirement. So we click on Enter Specific Value. We leave the metric as greater than or equal to, but we're going to enter a value of 4.91%. So we're setting it just above that average bar threshold. In any market condition, above average is above average. So now, finally, we're going to go to Profit Margin, check that box. Here's our third fundamental metric. Our average right now, 4.75%. And we're going to enter a specific value just above that average. How about we set that at 4.76. Clearly, from the time this is being recorded to the time you are watching it, these metrics could change. So remember to adapt this as you see fit for these metrics and for any others that you feel like introducing. So just those four metrics that we've now entered have pared down the list of potential candidates from over 11,000. Now we're only looking at 673. I'm going to add one more criteria requirement, and that is going back to that small cap requirement. When dealing with small capitalization companies, some growth investors might be concerned that if they get into very low-price securities, there may be more volatility than they were willing to sign up for. So let's go to price and volume in that left column. And we're going to select current price and set a minimum for today's example-- and this is an example only-- of $20 to $30, and then crank that up to $30 to $50, and above $50. So really, what we're telling our search engine is that we're looking for any growth candidate that is priced at $20 or higher. And as of this moment, there are 130 that are meeting all of our other criteria and have a price of at least $20. So as we go to view these 130 matches, just bear in mind, we know five things about every single stock that we're about to see. They are small cap stocks with greater than average earnings per share growth actually exceeding 10% and higher than average ROE and profit margin. And every single one of them is $20 or higher. So I'm going to click on view 130 matches. The search engine is going to go look through those more than 11,000 candidates that we started with, and it's going to give us a prioritized list of those that are meeting all of our criteria. So we've discussed what to buy. We've gone to the site and found stocks that meet our criteria. Now we need to get to decision number two, which is when to buy. Now, for some long-term investors, they might find a stock on their screen and just go ahead and buy it and hold it for a longer period. But in the short term, timing can play a big role. And in pursuit of this, we may employ a practice known as technical analysis. This is the usage of charts where we're looking at historical trends and patterns in price to try to predict future prices. Technicians believe trends repeat themselves and are predictable because human behavior is somewhat predictable. Now, a growth investor is very likely looking for a stock that's already moving upward, and they just want to latch onto that momentum. So we have to be able to identify a stock's current trend, and that's done using technical analysis, which requires charts. So let's go back to the site and have a look at some charts. We've asked ourselves an apparently simple question. We're looking for a stock that is uptrending. However, the definition of an upward trend can be very flexible. And as a matter of fact, stocks can move in three different directions. They can move up, they can move down, and they can move sideways. And a growth investor is probably only interested in one of those, the first. We're looking for an upward-trending stock. So we need to train our eyes to recognize an upward trend. Now, a nice feature of the platform is that if we just hover our cursor over the symbols for these stocks, we get a thumbnail chart which gives us a view of the last six months of prices rising or falling. And as we look here at M/I Homes, we can see that, generally speaking, over the last three months, prices appear to be rising. But there are others where that might not be the case. As we scroll down a little bit further, we see maybe an IRET. We've been breaking even for the year. Further still, down to JBSS, going sideways-- now, I want to explore those charts in a little bit greater detail. To access these stocks, all that we need to do is click on a symbol, and it's going to take us right to more detail elsewhere on the site. So I'm going to click on MHO. So as we click on this symbol, that takes us to what we call our stock's profile page. And from here, we want to direct our attention to the tab that's titled charts. I'm going to click on that, and that's going to load up a chart that a technician might use to begin to identify trends. Now, for the purposes of today's discussion, I'm going to be using a six-month chart, but trend analysis can be really theoretically done on any time frame. But now, let's start to address that question. Is this stock upward trending? How is that defined? Well, over the course of the last century or so, traders have been observing that stocks tend to not move straight up as they're moving in an upward trend or straight sideways as they're going in a sideways trend or straight down. But instead, there tends to be a stair-stepping process, an ebbing and flowing in the direction of the established trend. And so what we look for are short cycles in price, a run up and a pullback, a run up and a pullback. And to illustrate this, I want to draw some trend lines for you. So we're going to activate the Draw trendlines tool. And we'll notice here on MHO that, going back to mid-March, we hit a low right here and then rallied up to a cyclical peak. Then we sagged back to a cyclical low, accomplished a second rally, and down to a third cyclical low. And what has been noted by technical traders over the years is that as stocks move in these short cycles, if each cyclical peak exceeds the high of the peak before, they define that as an upward trend. This is known as a higher high. Particularly when paired with higher lows-- or as we hit cyclical lows, if those cyclical lows exceed the lows from the previous cycle, we now have a combination of higher highs and higher lows. And if we carry that forward to the current day, we just connect the highs and the lows, observing highs and lows. And we can see where that trend is taking us. Now, that is one potential definition of an upward trend. But as we've discussed, trends can behave in other ways. So let's look at an example from our list of stocks. Let's type that right up in the upper right-hand corner in our symbol box, and just click Go. And that's going to retrieve a chart for IRET. And in this example, I want to look at this period of time from February down to that first part of April. What we notice with the cycles here is that we hit-- and again, let's turn on our Draw trendline tool. We hit a cyclical peak in mid-February, selling down to a low in late February, rallied up to a peak in early March, down to a cyclical low mid-March, and so forth. Observing those highs and those lows may help an investor who is otherwise uncertain about the current direction of the stock to define the trend. For a growth investor, they may see a behavior like this, and that might eliminate this from consideration for investment for a period of time. As we look forward to the last few months, we can see that that pattern has reversed itself. And this might now be considered for growth investment, provided it's meeting our other metrics. A final potential trend is sideways. Now, you might think the definition of an upward trend is higher highs and higher lows, the definition of a downward trend is lower highs and lower lows. So therefore, a sideways trend must be, by extrapolation, equal highs and equal lows. Well, in real practice, that's an exceedingly rare occurrence. Usually highs and lows are not identical. They're not equal. Instead they are similar. So let's look at a third stock from our list of stocks from our screen. Symbol was JBSS. And in this case, we have a stock that's not accomplishing higher highs and higher lows. It's not accomplishing lower highs and lower lows. But instead, you can see that as it attempts a cyclical rally, those highs are taking us up to relatively equivalent areas. So we have similar highs, and at the same time, we see that we have similar lows. On this chart, the lows appear to be in the area of $80. The highs appear to be in the area of $88 to $89. So again, for a growth investor, they may see a stock like this, and they may park that for consideration of another time. Technically, doesn't seem to fit the bill. So there is how we might identify a trend. And we've identified a single stock that seems to be fitting our criteria. And actually, two-- MHO and IRET-- are meeting our fundamental criteria. They also are exhibiting characteristics of an upward trend. I'm going to go back to MHO. This is one of our upward-trending stocks. And you may have already observed that even within an established upward trend, conceptually, there may be better times to get in than others. So I'm going to move on to a second principle of technical analysis, and this is known as support and resistance. Those might be unfamiliar terms to you. Support is a fancy term for a price floor. Resistance is a term for a price ceiling. In the case of MHO, what we'll notice is that if we were to draw a line connecting those lows, it's as though there is an invisible ramp that is supporting price activity from below. The stock runs up, and then it pulls back. It touches along that ramp. It runs up and it pulls back, and it touches along that ramp. It runs up and it pulls back, and it touches along that ramp. So this has come to be referred to by traders as support. And that can play an important role in the timing of entry. Because as you look at this chart, where do you think you might be inclined to get into the stock? Would it be at times where the stock has separated itself significantly from that support level, or as the stock has retraced and come down close to support? Now we're starting to think like a trader. You may have also noticed that there is a second ramp effect in play here, and that is if we were to connect the highs. Let's draw a line connecting those cyclical highs, and we notice that it appears, in this case, that it's almost like there's an invisible force resisting the advance of stock prices above that line. Now, in both cases, support and resistance, there's nothing mystical about these forces. It's actually just buyers coming in driving prices back up from support and sellers coming in driving prices back down from resistance. But the ability to identify price floors and price ceilings, price support or price resistance, may help a trader who is looking for a growth opportunity, looking to optimize their entries. Now that we've identified trend and we've identified support and resistance, we can start to learn from historical behaviors on this chart and maybe look for entry opportunities. What I'm going to do here is zoom in. So we're going to enable the Zoom function on our chart. And I'm going to click and drag on that chart on just those last few months, and that's going to give us a closer look at just that detail. And we'll notice that as the stock has been stair stepping higher, there are specific points at which the trader might look for entry. And if we look back to late March transitioning into early April, the stock has pulled back, and it's come back down to a possible entry point. And for some investors, just that mere pullback may represent an opportunity to enter. But there is a concern here. That is that we might be trying to catch a falling knife. So for other traders, they wait for that price momentum to swing up again. And they start to employ these little hash marks that you're seeing here, red and green hash marks. These are called candles. And very simply, they tell us day by day what price has done. The green ones tell us that price went up from the open. The red ones tell us that price fell from the opening values of that day. So for a short-term investor who's looking for a growth entry signal, they may look for a pullback down to an apparent support area that is accompanied by a green candle, or in other words, we call this a bullish candle. Price is starting to move up again. So that's one potential entry. So we're starting to bring together the elements of technical analysis-- trend identification, support and resistance, and now entry signals. But I want to give you a new tool here. Let's start to explore some of the technical indicators that are available on this chart. One tool that is commonly used by technical traders is something known as a moving average, which can be used to identify trend. It can also be used, theoretically, to identify areas of support and resistance. So I'm going to add that moving average to our chart. Right up here, in the field titled Upper Indicators, I'm going to click on the little dropdown and select SMA, which is an abbreviation for a simple moving average. Now, as we add our simple moving average to the chart, we'll notice that we get two lines. For today's discussion, I just need one. So I'm going to eliminate one of those using the little box right next to Price MHO. I'm going to click on that, and that shows us our two lines. I'm going to get rid of that second line and change the first line to a 50. And I'll explain what I'm doing here in just a moment. But I'll click update, and you'll notice now we have a single green line moving through that price chart. So let's talk about what this green line is and its potential implications for that growth investor. For our purposes today, I have selected the number 50, and that was for a very specific reason. What I'm trying to address here is the question, I wonder what the average price has been for this stock over the last 50 days. This indicator looks back over the last 50 days and generates a plot on the chart to indicate where that average price is. On our chart today, I can see that that line is just below 30, right around 28. So that tells me the average price over the last 50 days is about 28. Well, that average changes over time. So this just plots a new dot every single day and then connects that with a line. That's how the indicator is generated. But how is it used? For a technical trader, it may just be an indication of trend. We're using 50 days of data here, so it's more of an indication of an intermediate trend direction. And in this case, you can see that very recently, right around the second week of May, the trend changed as defined by this simple moving average. So trend direction is one potential application for a trader. Another very possibly powerful application is that this indicator might be used to generate entry signals. You'll notice, in the third week of April, price rose up and through that. For some technicians, that might actually signal an entry. And in this case, you can see that since that date, the stock has continued to make higher highs and higher lows. So here we've discussed two potential entries. A first might be simply price rising up and through that moving average. But in the absence of a recent signal from that crossover behavior, the investor might also look for the stock price pulling down to a support level and then accompanied by a green candle. So let's look to see if we have a more recent signal. Let's draw our trendline in again. Let's connect those lows. There is our potential support area, our price floor. And you can see very recently, price came down in early June, touched that support level, and we got a green candle. So here we're seeing a potential entry signal very recently. And as we look at the activity over just the last few days, prices come back down to that support. Maybe we'll get another one. We've discussed what to buy. We've covered when to buy. Now we need to discuss something very vital, and that is how much to buy. When we've gone to the trouble to look for stocks exhibiting characteristics that we like, it's easy to fall in love with those stocks and overcommit to a single security. And that can dial up the risk. So an individual investor looking for growth may make a decision in advance that they will not commit more than a specific amount of their portfolio to any single stock. For example, in our demonstration account, we have $70,000. And maybe we decide that we're not going to allocate more than 5% to any individual security, no matter how much we like it. That can serve a twofold purpose for us. Number one, it keeps risk minimized in a single security. The second potential benefit is that it provides for diversification of the portfolio. If we're only putting 5% into one stock, it takes 20 stocks to get a full allocation. So let's make this real. Let's go back to the platform and place our first trade. So here we are on a now-familiar stock's profile page with M/I Homes. And we have a stock that meets all of our fundamental criteria. It's recently given a buy signal. It's now pulled back. And we're going to go ahead with our trade just on the fact that it's down at that support level, in the upward trend, meeting our fundamental criteria. So to place that first trade, we're going to go up to the Trade tab, and we're going to select Stocks and ETFs from the drop-down menu. For today's example, we're going to use a market order, which should give us a quick fill. And a final decision that we might need to make, if using a limit order, is the time-in-force where we could designate an order that will remain in force for up to six months. But for our market order, we're just going to leave that as day. And now, finally, we're ready to review and place that order. This is obviously where the excitement level rises. I'm going to take a little bit of pressure off right now. If this is your very first trade, it might be a good idea, just while getting familiar with these processes, to just buy a single share. So even though we've decided that we could allocate up to 100 shares to this position, we're just going to buy one share. So now we're going to come down and click on Review order. And don't worry, we haven't made a solid commitment yet. We still have a minute and a half to review that this is really what we want to do. You'll notice here on our review order screen, we have 90 seconds to place our order. So we can read back to ourselves that this is really what we want to do. Buying one share of MHO at the market price, and this is just an order that's good for the day. This gives us an estimated cost of the trade. It's a $33.84 stock, so the cost is $33.84. With some trades, there may be transaction fees involved, but we're now ready to place the order. Let's go ahead and send this one off to market, and we should get very quickly a confirmation that that order has filled. And we are now the owners of one share of MHO at a price of $33.82. We've covered what to buy, when to buy, how much to buy. We've actually even placed that first trade. Now it's time to talk about when to sell. There are a few ways that we might accomplish that. Let's get right back to our trade. As we go to place our sell order here, I have to acknowledge that we've done a lot of work up to this point. And clearly what the growth investor is hoping for is this stock will go up in price, and they'll be managing profits over time. But we have to be realistic. Despite our best efforts, it's quite possible the stock might have a different idea, and it could go down. So let's talk about managing that downside risk first. And as I mentioned, for some investors, they may just decide, from my entry point, maybe I have a sell order in mind to get me back out if this stock happens to fall, let's say, 10%. And I'm not taking 10% entirely at random. There's actually a mathematical process to losses and the difficulty in recovering from those. For example, let's suppose that you bought a stock for $100 and then it happened to slide just 35%, down to about $65. Well, with that remaining $65, you have to accomplish more than a 50% profit just to get back to breakeven. So those losses-- the compounding difficulty of recovering from losses grows and particularly once you get about past that 10% threshold. So for our example trade today, let's put it in a sell order that will get us out 10% below our entry price. If you recall, we were able to purchase those shares for $33.82. 10% below that is $3.38. Or in other words, that takes us down to a sell order price of $30.44. So let's start to fill out our field here. First of all, we're going to change the action clearly to a sell order. The quantity has already filled with 1, but we do want to make sure that that's correct. Next, we enter our symbol, MHO. So now let's choose our order type. In this case, we're going to be using what's known as a stop market order. This is to be used in the case that the stock is moving in the wrong direction. This means, stop the trade, I want out. And here we can enter our threshold price. So 10% below our entry of 33.82 was down at $30.44. We're telling the system, get us out at $30.44 or lower. There's certainly the possibility that it could actually fill at a lower price. What happens when $30.44 is accomplished, if it ever is, it triggers a market sell order to go to the market, which means, hey, we're just filled at whatever the next price is. And that could be a little bit higher than 30.44. It might be lower than 30.44. Now, our time-in-force, let's change that to good till canceled. If we don't make that adjustment, this order would only be good for a single trading day, So we choose good till canceled. We can set a precise expiration date or just leave it at the default. We can set that out to as much as six months out in time, but we're ready to place this order. So I'm going to come down and click on Review order. And once again, we have that opportunity to make sure this is really what we want to do. We're selling one share of MHO, but only if the price happens to drop to $30.44. That is the activation price or the stop level. The credit that I might receive for the sale of those shares at that point, $30.44. And we're ready to place that order. And now that order has been submitted, and we'll just have to see if it ultimately fills. That is to address the management of the trade if the stock doesn't perform as expected. However, we've done some work. Hopefully what we're looking for here is for price to rise at this point. How does a trader manage profits in the case of a stock that is performing well? Well, we want to give that stock room to move, but we also want to stay ahead of any significant new developments that might change our minds about continuing ownership of this stock. For example, let's say we get six months down the road and we've identified a significant area of support, and then that support is broken. That may be interpreted by a technician as a signal of pending bearishness for that stock, and it may be a reason to exit the trade. So there could be a technical reason. There might also be a fundamental reason. Let's say that six months down the line, the stock is still performing, and yet there is a significant change to the management team. Maybe the CEO is replaced, or maybe a new competitor enters the marketplace. So we just want to keep our eye on news and new technical developments in the management of this trade going forward. But in any event, it may be a good idea for a trader in the management of that position to establish some routines. Obviously, with MHO, we're hoping the stock rises. And let's suppose that it's doing its job. It's climbing to higher and higher levels. But there is our stop, still waiting all the way down at $30.44. Well, what we might do is put it in our calendar to revisit that stop, see if the price has reached significantly higher levels, and then move the stop up to just 10% below those new levels. So we're starting to manage that downside risk and, conceptually, managing new profits. And that's it. Those are the basics you need to place your first stock trade. There's a lot more detail you can sift through, so don't think this is all there is to it. Now you're ready to take things to the next step. As a brand new stock trader, it can be intimidating and expensive to gain experience. To get that practice without any real skin in the game, download thinkorswim from your TD Ameritrade account. The thinkorswim software includes practice trading tools called Paper Money. This allows you to trade stocks under current market conditions without risking real money. TD Ameritrade offers lots of other resources where you can learn more about investing. We've put some links in the description below. Be sure to follow us on social media, and don't forget to subscribe and hit the bell to get notified about new uploads. 