 - Awesome. Thank you so much, Yau, and echoing thanks to all of the co-organizers, you know, Sergei, Yau, and HT Yau. It's an incredible honor to be, you know, sort of here kicking off the, you know, now sixth annual Big Data Conference at the Center of Mathematical Sciences and Applications. As Yau said, we really appreciate the sponsorship of the Alfred P Sloan Foundation, which has, you know, been involved in supporting a number of these events. And this is a tremendously fun event for me because, you know, we bring together scholars from all sorts of different areas. You know, sort of everyone from, you know, sort of like pure statistics all the way down to, you know, people who are doing applications, you know, sort of, you know, on the ground. And, you know, so it's always an incredible learning opportunity for me. And it's always really an opportunity to meet lots of different people, and you know, reach a very broad audience. So this year we're both saddened to not be doing it in person and tremendously excited to be doing it virtually for the first time. Among other things, it means we can have speakers from all over the world, and also, you know, audience members from all over the world. Indeed, it looks like the total number of people currently tuned into this webinar is 50% of the total attendance from last year's conference. So, you know, we're thrilled to have all of you, and, you know, we're thrilled to be back. And I'm especially, you know, excited and honored to be introducing our first keynote speaker, Dr. Varda Shalev, who is the director of the Institute of Research and Innovation at Maccabitech, and also a primary care physician at Maccabi Healthcare Services, where she's previously been director of primary care. She also teaches at Tel Aviv University and is responsible for establishing the Department of Medical Informatics at Maccabi. She was, you know, sort of the leading and initial medical informaticist. And she has pioneered the development of many disease registries to support and sort of manage chronic disease. You know, to support, not to support the disease, to support chronic disease management. But you know, she's also, she's a personal friend. And I should tell you, we teach a case study about her work at Maccabitech at Harvard Business School. And, you know, when we were doing the interviews for this case study, every single person we spoke to described her as a force of nature. Now I've been in situations where, you know, someone and, you know, and some sort of interviewee says, "Oh, you know, the CEO or the director or whatever is a force of nature." But I have never before seen a circumstance where uniformly every single person who had worked with Varda saw her that way. And, you know, having sort of worked with her myself, I can definitely concur. She is a force of nature, and we're very excited to have her kick off. Please welcome Dr. Shalev. - Thank you. Thank you very much, Scott. And it's an honor to work with you for a long time, and I'm pleased to see you even in Zoom, soon I hope in person. And I'll put the slides on and see if it works. Just a minute. Okay, can you see? - [Scott] Yes, perfect. - Okay, great. So we talk about, you know, how we work actually from big data to small, meaningful insights for patients. So I'm a practicing physician, after all. And we'll start with Israel, which is a small country that makes big noise, you know, so it's the opposite way around. You see this little red dot? That's where we are, that's where all the noise comes from. And, you know, the world is becoming personal. Everybody talks about personal, personalizing the world, actually. And we are offered to do personalized things to buy. And we know, we all know that one size does not fit all. And we talk about precision medicine. And usually we talk about precision things in precision medicine because we don't do it. Because whatever we do, we don't talk about. We are not predictive enough. We are not personalized enough. We are not preventive enough. And we don't make the patient part of us enough. He does not participate in the decisions enough. And you know, when I ask my patients, "What do you think, a treatment that I provide you, will it help you?" And they say, "Of course, you know, you're my physician." Most of the, you know, 25 years, I have a clinic with a partner for so many years. But the truth is that the number needed to treat is not one. Because if it was true, when you treat the patient, it would always help him. And the term number needed to treat that was invented in McMaster University shows that when we treat a patient, usually, you can see for example, about Crestor, which is a statin. You know, statins, most of the people above 50 use statins for hypercholesterolemia. And you see that the number needed to treat is 20. Actually we have to treat 20 patients, that one of them will benefit from the drug. What does it mean? Most of the people that we'll treat with Crestor, the cholesterol will be lower. We'll be able to lower the cholesterol, but only one will change the morbidity or the mortality. And it's very bad. And you can see that most of the drugs are the same. So actually we are doing not precision medicine, but imprecision medicine. And that has to force us to do something else. And before I'll go back to big data, I'll say why we in Maccabi, for example, decided to do a lot about innovation. And I know that it's an overused term, innovation. But you know, even though we are budgeted by the government, and it's mandatory to have health insurance in Israel, most of us don't do enough innovation and we'll disappear, and we don't aim enough high. And that's why we don't achieve too much. And when I talk about innovation, I talk about disruption. It's not only about improvement, it's about disruption. How can we do something that will change totally the way that we do or practice medicine? For example, if we could use iPhone to take x-rays instead of sending a patient to x-ray, we will change a lot. This is disruption, because we will use it a lot more, it doesn't have x-ray radiation, and more and more. But to do innovation, it means taking risks. And in medicine, everybody taught us, don't take risks because patients, it's patients' life. And that's why we don't do fast enough innovations in medicine. But in Israel, you know, we are called the startup nations. We have the largest number of startups per capita in Israel. And they think part of it is because we all go into the army, and we do, we have, we started with tanks and airplanes. But these days we are doing more and more cyber and computers in the army. And when we actually finish our serving, we go out with a lot of talents in the computing and a lot of innovation. And that's why I think we have so much innovation in Israel. And when we do innovation, a lot of it we can do design by analogy. So if in Airbnb, you don't have hotels and in Ubers you don't have cabs, maybe in medicine, maybe we can skip the hospitals. Now in Corona time, we see it a lot. So I think we can learn a lot from other domains. But in order to do it, we need a lot of data. And the problem in medicine, that we don't open enough the data. And you know why? Because open, we always talk about privacy. And privacy is really, really important in medicine. But many times behind privacy there is laziness and ego, and not only privacy. And that's why we don't share data. And we lack a lot of innovation because of it. And of course, if you won't have fun, what have we done? So I think with the innovation we should enjoy. Now in every organization there is a chief of idea killer. Whenever you come with an idea, he tells you why it's not a good idea to do it. He has a vice president of no and vice president of status quo and a director of rigidity and bureaucracy. And it's very, very difficult in a large organization to come and do innovation. And you see here on the right, on the bottom, a vacant place, usually, which is the manager of new ideas or innovation. Because it's very easy to fail here. And most of the people don't like to be here. It's very unsafe to be here. So tell you a little bit about Maccabi. In Maccabi, actually we have 2 1/2 million patients. We have EMR since 1993, and we have less than 1% dropout yearly. So actually we have data from cradle to grave, and it's a very, very good playground to do big data and innovation. And we collect everything. We collect imaging and lab tests and physician notes and everything. And note here that we have one central lab to all Maccabi. So actually, all over Israel, when you draw some blood or take some urine from a patient, it goes to one central lab and you have actually most of the results same day or a day later. And it's very important, and I'll show you why later. So I'll show you a little bit as Maccabi compared to the US. So in the US there is a network called HMORN or HCS Research Network that most of the HMOs are part of it, the largest one of them. And we in Maccabi are the only partner out of the US. And you can see that even here we are third in size, we are second to have electronic patient record that we started very, very early, and we are first in the retention rate of patients. We have patients for long, long time, from cradle to grave. And when we talk about data, most of the people would say data is the most important thing. It's the new oil. So where was the data up until now? It was here. We were writing it on paper. And actually I long this day sometimes, because you know it was heaven. The patients didn't understand. The pharmacist didn't understand what we write. We didn't understand many time. And the big brother wasn't behind our back. But then the computer came in, and all of a sudden you know we have structured data. Everybody can understand it in real time, and there are many advantages to it. And, you know, I started my career as a family physician in a kibbutz. I don't know how many of you know what a kibbutz is. It's a very small place that everybody share everything. You know, they share all the resources together. And I have these kibbutz and three villages. And I was traveling with my car all around, seeing patients that are very different in each village because the origin of the patient was very different in each village. And I did a lot of intuitive medicine, but I felt my patients, I knew their homes. I knew I knew what they were cooking. But with the time when I came back for my fellowship, I did my postdoc in Johns Hopkins in medical informatics. And there, all of a sudden we were the three of us, the computer, the patient, and myself, in a new era. It became very distant. And it's a lot easier to look at the computer than at the patient eyes. There is a lot of data in the computer. And I think that we are going this way to have so much a cockpit, like actually an airplane. And where's the patient, and how are we going to close the gap? And when I started as a medical informatics officer, the physicians would say, "We don't have enough data to make decisions." But with the time now they say, "Help, we have too much data. We don't want more data because we don't have time to deal with all the data." But maybe we can take this data, and it's part of the solution. Use the data in order to help the physician. And that's actually the challenge that we have. Now, it's not easy to be a physician these days. And it's not only because of the Corona. Because first, we are getting older. And with when you see this, with so many children and very little adults, it's changing to different, you know, way that you have little children, more adults. The population is become, becomes a lot older. And we are getting sicker, and again, not only by Corona. You can see that between 2003 and 2023, we became older here, but we became a lot sicker. So not only the population becomes older, it becomes sicker. You can see that at the age of 50, 50% of us have about three or four comorbidities. So our patients are very complicated. And everybody tells us, "Don't try and treat the patient for active disease, do preventive medicine." So think about me as the physician. Older patients, complex, we have to do preventive medicine, and on top of it, we talk about budget. You can see that in the US you spend almost 17% of the GDP about health. In the OECD it's about 8.8%. And in Israel, it's about 7 1/2%. And by the way, I can show you the results. And you can see that the infant mortality in Israel is a lot lower than in the US, and the life expectancy is longer than the US. So I want to show you, how are we going to do it? Usually we do it, on the first place, second, and third by technology. We use a lot of technology. It's not only technology, but we use a lot of technology in order to achieve it. So after I finished my job as the medical informaticist, the chief medical informatics, I went to create a big data and innovation center. Actually, before that I was the head of all the primary care in Maccabi, all the physicians and nurses, et cetera. And I said to myself, "Okay, let's create a startup within a big organization." So I have a great digital data, but will it be enough? No, it won't be enough if I won't have genetics as well as biology data in order to create this big data and innovation center. And as I told you, in our mega lab, we have about 16,000 patients a day that we draw about 50,000 samples of blood. And we go, we have the results almost same day. So maybe I can go on top of this mega lab and create a bio bank. So I decided to create a bio bank called TIPA. Tipa in Hebrew is a drop, a drop for research. And we said, "Okay, let's ask our patient. Would you mind that each time that you take some blood, we'll take some more and we'll keep in our refrigerators?" So we called it a Tipa (speaking in foreign language), a drop for research, and we went to the collecting points, We have about 300 collecting points, and ask the patient, and guess. More than 50% of the patients, on the first time that you approach them, they say, "Yes, we agree. We want to be part of this research system." And we started to collect everything. Even teeth, by the way. We have a collaboration with Harvard about collecting teeth from patients, and whenever they pull the teeth, we collect it to the bio bank now, and it's part of the bio bank. And we think, less than two years, we have 150,000 patients within the bio bank. And we collect data not only once, but every quarter, if you come. Whenever you come and a quarter, or three months, have passed, we collect the data. We collect some more of what you provide. If you provide blood, we collect some more, urine, collect some more, et cetera. And you can see how many comorbidities we have already in the bio bank. So now, not only that we have data, digital data, but we have lots of biological data and we can go to genetics and to biology as well. Because think about the last articles that we see about, like this one that was published in "Science" from Johns Hopkins, that shows us that even in not metastasized tumors, like ovary, liver, stomach, when you look at the blood, you can see, you can diagnose the cancer just from liquid biopsy. So now actually we have an outcome, like an ovary cancer, and we can go back to a blood test and to phenotypic data and see whether we can diagnose a lot earlier. And we started many, many research projects on this combination data of biology and genetics. And for the donors, actually, we had many argues here in Israel, whether we should ask them if they want to know what we find in the blood, whether we should go back to them or not. But we decided that we won't be able as an HMO to find an actionable gene, for example, and not go back to the patient. So we said, "Okay, if you want to join the bio bank, whenever we find an actionable gene, we'll go back to you." So for example, if we find familiar polyposis or long QT and we can do something about it, we go back to the patients. And as I told you, more than 50% of the patient want it. We have built a portal for these patients. We show them how many patients are with them and what we found to the other patients, anonymously, folks, of course. And actually we have an amazing opportunity now because we have more than a quarter of a century of data, we have one central lab, we have unique genetic data, we have huge computing power, we have many partnerships, and now we can play with the data. And that's why we created this big data and innovation center in Maccabi. And the first one to donate to us was Morris Kahn. The second one was Sami Sagol, and that's why we called it KSM. KSM is magic, K-S-M, it's magic in Hebrew. And it's built here, just near the sea of Tel Aviv, on the beach, and you see how it looks. And you know, when we started big data, everybody talks, spoke about the four Vs in big data. The volume, of course, of data, the variety of data, the velocity that you have real data in big data, and the veracity, the quality of data. But since then, we became in love with the V, the letter V, and there was the five Vs of big data. Now they added the value of the big data, which is very important. What should you do with the data if you don't bring value? With time we got six Vs of big data, and we start to talk about the variability of the data. And then the seven Vs of big data. And we spoke about visualization of the data. And then the eighth here, they have different ones. The virality of the data, the viscosity of the data. And that's without talking about V of VADA of big data. So actually we are collecting Vs to show that actually it's very complex to work with big data and to get over all this noise of the big data. But I think that the most important actually is the volume of the data and the value. What are you going to do with the data that would be valuable? So what we did actually, under one umbrella, we put epidemiology, clinical research, big data, and bio bank, and I'll tell you more about it. So that's about Scott and Carin Knoop that have done this Harvard Business School case, that we talked with this here by Zoom to another class. And thank you again, Scott. And we started with descriptive data. Usually what we do in medicine is descriptive. We compare between two groups. But we want to go more to predictive studies and even prescriptive studies. And I'll talk more about it. But first, you know, we always ask, what should we collect to the big data lake? Should we collect everything? Is there something that's not important? So I'll tell you about a story about a patient in my clinic. Actually, I know him from birth and he was healthy until he became 14 years old. And then one day his mom called me and told me, "You know, he has cough and very high temperature." So I took him to hospital and he has abnormal x-rays. We thought it's pneumonia, but it's not pneumonia. Because later on, even though he got the treatment, he did not recover, and he had hematuria, which is blood in urine, and arthralgia, which is a lot of pains in the legs and hands and more. And he had diarrhea and fever spikes, and it continued for years. And we didn't know what he had actually. And you know, when we don't know what a patient have, we start examining him from everywhere. So we did blood tests like CRP, which is a inflammation status. That was high. And when we saw the blood in the urine and we found celiac antibodies, but it wasn't celiac. And we found sometimes neutropenia, which is low level of neutrophils. And we did lung biopsy and intestine biopsy, which was abnormal like Crohn's disease. So we saw a little bit from everything, but we didn't understand actually what it was. We didn't have a diagnosis. And the mom is a PhD in biology. So every day, she would come and suggest something. Maybe it's zinc deficiency. I read an article, it could be the zinc. Maybe it's a Chinese worm. Maybe it's a certain allergy. Maybe it's an overdose of a vitamin. But everything was negative and wasn't correct. While we were thinking what he had, four years later, his brother became 14 and he came with the same symptoms. So now we had another patient, the brother, with the same thing, and we didn't understand what it was. But then one day the mom again came and said, "You know, Professor Shalev, it's very interesting. I saw in his lab tests that the neutrophil count, which is low, it's only in hospital low. When we take the exam in Maccabi, in the mega lab, it's always normal. It should be the opposite way around, because it's usually when you're hospitalized you have inflammation, and then the neutrophils go up. How can it be? I really didn't know. So I went to hospital, first look at the exams. You see that in the HMO the neutrophil count is normal, you see, between 40 and 75, it's 68. And in hospital, which it should be between 42 and 72, it's one, even less. How can it be? So I went to hospital to see the machine. And I found out that we have different machines for CBC. In hospital they color the neutrophil with the material, with somebody that colors the myeloperoxidase, which is something between, within the neutrophil. And in Maccabi, they have a different system. So now we understood that we check, we examine the neutrophils differently. And it happened to be that the patient had myeloperoxidase deficiency. So actually we got to the diagnosis just because we had a different machine in Maccabi and in hospital. And you see here that you you hardly see the neutrophils, and here you see them very clearly with our machine. So actually, in the big data, you even have to keep in which machines you are doing the exam or the lab test. And it happened to be that we checked the mother and the father, and both of them were carriers of myeloperoxidase deficiency. And both of the kids were homozygous to this gene. And now that we knew it, we could treat them with certain antibiotics and they are a lot, a lot better now. Usually 95% of those patients are asymptomatics, but their case is a lot more difficult. So actually in big data, you have to put in the data lake everything, because you can never know what you need later. That's one issue. And the patients, whenever they have a problem, they go to Dr. Google. And usually they come back to us, the physicians. And we are tired many times to see what they come with, because it's not accurate. It's not specific enough. It takes us time to explain them why it's not. In most of the patients, they want the wisdom of the crowd. And they want the wisdom of more physicians to understand really what they have. So when they go out of my office, they usually want to see what would other physicians say, what would other patients get when they have the same symptoms? So I got a call from two people in the US. They told me, you know, "We are entrepreneurs. We've built a few companies, but when, and we are doing a lot of data science, but whenever we go, we have symptom and we go to Dr. Google, we never understand what we have. It's always cancer. If you have abdominal pain, it's cancer. If you have headache, it's cancer. How can it be?" So I said, "Okay, let's go and look at our database and build a new ontology, entities with attributes." And we saw that 200 different symptoms account for 90% of the visits of patients within physicians' offices. So we took those symptoms, with all the attributes of the symptoms. Like headache, when did it start? Is it accompanied by vomiting, et cetera, et cetera. And we have built an application that you can start complaint to the application. So for example, I got this from a friend. He told me, "I got up in the morning with a red eye. So I went to the application. Here it's in Hebrew, but we have the same in English. By the way, the name of the company is K Health. And he started complaining to the application. And then application told him, "You know, after 20 questions, we can tell you that 88% of people like you had subconj hemorrhage, which is the real diagnosis, and less than 10% had conjunctivitis." And all of a sudden he has actually something with context. It's not that he's looking at the internet. He has something that is personal for him. By the way, this company, worth more than half a billion dollar already in three years since we started. And Maccabi, we get royalties from this company, of course. This is another company that actually, I got two scientists. Actually, they were, they just finished the army. And they told me, you know, they're looking to do something good for the world. Do you have a subject? And we started to look for a subject. And one of them had a brother who is a pathologist. And we found out that in all Israel, we have only 100 pathologists. And we have so many cases of pathology growing and growing because we're getting sicker, and a lot of biopsies within our mega lab. Tens of thousands of biopsies. And we said, okay, let's teach the machine to read biopsies. So we started with prostate cancer, because you know, when you do prostate cancer biopsy, you have eight to 10 slides, and it's very tedious to do it, and you have graded. It's not only positive and negative, you're grading of Gleason score, et cetera. And the machine was very active. Actually between three and four months, it was as good as a pathologist. What was interesting, that pathologists do mistakes, and machine does mistakes, but it's different mistakes. For example, one day we implemented the machine as a second opinion within Maccabi. So whenever a Maccabi patient does a prostate biopsy, it goes to the pathologist. And if it's negative, it's been scanned and the machine says its opinion. And one day the machine started to shout prostate cancer on a negative result. And we found out that it was a very active pathologist that while he was taking the biopsy, he took a little bit of intestine. And the machine was sure that it's cancer. But now we taught it, and it's a lot better. And the machine does different mistakes than the pathologist, so I think the combination with human and machine is very powerful. And now we are doing already a breast and the colon as well, and I'll tell you how I got into this area of data. So in my clinic, usually I see patients and some of them have bad outcomes. And whenever I have a bad outcome, I go back to see if I could do better. And unfortunately, most of the time I could do something better. So this time I had this patient, he was about 70 years old. And he came with advanced colon cancer. Whenever you have patient with advanced colon cancer, it's a failure of the system. And you ask yourself, could I diagnose him before? So I started to look at the file to see whether he had abdominal pain, blood in stool, et cetera, everything was negative. And then I looked at his lab test because I wanted to see whether his hemoglobin level was low, because then he had anemia. And sometimes you bleed from a polyp and it's an early sign for colon cancer. And you can see that he didn't have anemia. But when I looked back here, you can see that his hemoglobin level is falling within the norm for three years, between 15.7 to 14. And I said to myself, "Maybe I could diagnose him here or here." So I was very upset. And I decided to see how many patients like this we have in Maccabi. So I took all the patients with colon cancer without anemia. Those are females and males. Here they got the colon cancer. Those are controls, and those are sick patients. And you can see that in females as well as males, three years before they get the colon cancer, the hemoglobin level is starting to fall between, within the norm. So actually my patient was typical. And I published it as a descriptive study, but of course as a descriptive study it won't help anybody. And I started to think, how can I draw a meaningful arrow? So when I get a hemoglobin level that is low, I can alert the physician, be careful, it could can be colon cancer. Should I take two standard deviations? Should I do something else? While I was thinking about it, I got a group of mathematicians that was dealing with algo trading, there for a medical company. And they came to me and said, "You know, we want to do something with value. Can we help you in something?" I said, "Yes, here, you know, we have a problem." We have a CBC variation. We can't alert every time, because you know, hemoglobin levels can be sometime 14, 13.8, then 14 again. When should we alert? We don't want to alert each time that it goes down because the physician will get an alert fatigue. So we started to work together in order to find a solution. And it was interesting to find out that even one CBC that actually has 20 parameters is predictive for colon cancer. Because the relationships between age, gender, MCV, MCH, thrombocytes, hemoglobin, et cetera, is predictive for colon cancer. And we implemented it in Maccabi. And everybody between 50 and 75, which is the age of screening, we calculate the risk and we alert the physician, positive for colon cancer. And look what happened. When you are doing FOBT, which is a blood, examination of blood in stool, if you have a positive result, it's only 5% that you have colon cancer. If you have positive colonscore, it's doubled, it's about 10%, and you have a lot less clean colonoscopies. So actually, we can do passive screening, behind the screen, and alert the physician. And we found, it's not updated, almost 100 patients with colon cancer that we wouldn't have diagnosed without this calculation. And we found hundreds of polyps that are precancerous, just because we use the data behind the screen, integrated it into the system, and alerted the physician. And it was published in a few papers in medical magazines, but it was also published in "Haaretz," which is just, you know, a daily magazine for people in Israel. And I got this letter from a patient, and he told me, you see it's in Hebrew. "You see, I am 85. I was sent to a colonoscopy, but when I went to the gastroenterologist, he told me, "You know, you're too old. We don't do screening colonoscopies in your age. It's costly and it's dangerous." And he asked me, "Can you calculate my risk?" And I did it, and he was negative, and I called him. But I've learned a lot from this patient because I asked myself, why should we stop screen patient when he's 75? When you're 75, you can have life expectancy of a year or 25 years. So maybe we can do active screening on 50 to 75 and continue with passive screening afterwards. Or maybe we can even start between, before 50, because there is a left shift to younger people from colon cancer now these days. Maybe we can start with passive screening only about data. So we won the first prize from the Ministry of Health about this innovation. And actually for me, it was closing the loop from this patient to doing this company. And it's implemented in Israel. It's implemented in Kaiser now. It's implemented in Geisinger. So it's really an innovation. But in order to succeed in big data, it's not enough to do algorithmics. The algorithm should be embedded within the system, and it should be seamless for the physician. And in order to do it, you need a champion in the organization and you need to continuously get everybody with you on board and to give you quick results so you'll be able to do it. And I'll show you some more things that we've done on the same page. So the other one is actually professor Roy Kishony, who was a professor in Harvard as well, and is professor in the Technion in Israel. And he's doing computing biology. And he came to my office and told me, "You know, I want to do something with you. I'm very interested in bacteria. Actually, I'm doing about bacteria and resistance to antibiotics. Do you have a good questions, a good question?" And as I've told you, family physicians, we always have good questions because we have problems. We don't know how to solve them. And I told him, "You know, even in UTI, urinary tract infection, when I have a patient with symptoms of urgency and fever, et cetera, I send him to culture, but I have to give antibiotics now, before I get the culture, and I just guess what to give. And many times we don't guess well. Maybe we can use the machine and build an algorithm to guess better. Maybe we can take demographic data, past infection, past antibiotics, do some machine learning, and predict the right antibiotics." And look here, we took the data in Maccabi and we put it on a Israel geographic map. And you can see that between resistance and not resistance, it changes all the time. So if I sit here, how do I know now if the bacteria is in Rosh HaAyin, where I treat patient, is resistant or not mostly? We can't. So only by using the computer with the phenotypic data, we can guess better. So we created this algorithm that was published in "Nature" a year ago, and we showed that by this algorithm, we can lower the mismatch of antibiotics by 40, almost 50% only by assisting, get assisted by the computer. So now actually we are implemented in Maccabi. Each night we are calculating, what's the right antibiotic for you if you come tomorrow with UTI? And we are going to alert the physician, this is the right antibiotic to give this patient. We have done a lot of work with vocal files as well, because we have files that nurses are talking with chronically ill patients for a long time. And we found a algorithm that predict deterioration of congestive heart failure. We are about to implement it as well in Maccabi. And we are, we want actually to do personalized screening with genetics and phenotypic data more and more. But you know, implementing precision medicine, it's not easy. You need a certain API, and you need the physicians to be with you. So do you think that all the change will come from the physician? I don't think so. I think that most of it will come from the patient. If you want to do revolutions, you have to do it with the patients. And that's why I decided to go and create a startup that I created now with the partner, that he was the president of Check Point, which is the loudest tech companies in Israel, Amnon Bar-Lev. And you know, there's a huge tension between patients, physicians, and the system. We all want to do good medicine, but you know, everybody pushes to a different place. For example, do you know what WWW is? So it's not worldwide web, it's something else I mean. It's win, win, win. How do you find the spot that it's win for the patient, win for the physician, and win for the organization? We don't have too many spots that are win for everybody. Because if it's good for the patient, many times, it's a lot of time for the physician. If it's costly to the organization, they don't want to give it to the patient, et cetera, et cetera. So let's look at the team. Let's look at physician versus patient. Time, physician doesn't have time, but the patient has a lot of time. We don't use enough the patient's time. Incentive, the physician many times does not have the incentive to be so holistic, to look at you so deeply, but the patient has himself, and his family, and it's the best machine that he could have. So he has to have the time and incentive. Knowledge the physician has and the patient doesn't, but maybe we can provide the patient with a lot of knowledge that will help the both of them. And we have to be tools for the patient. By the way, as a physician, I can tell you, and I built all my life tools for the physicians, for decision support. We don't have enough tools. Because many times the organization has this different working plans and incentive at the moment and problems, and the economical problems. And for the physicians, we can do it really fast. We can build them application and let the patient have a lot of knowledge on top of his data. The physician can have alert fatigue. You know, if a patient comes to me with an ankle strain and I start alerting the system, look at his blood pressure, look at his blood glucose, maybe he has a side effect, et cetera, et cetera, the physicians get alert fatigue. The patient does not get alert fatigue from this data. And also, we as physicians, we don't know everything about the patient. We don't ask everything. We don't have the time to ask everything. We don't have data to give the patient from other patients because we don't know it. So actually, most of the patient, they have a confidence gap between them and the physicians. They are looking for second opinion, for more data. And these days, we can use AI, artificial intelligence, and crowdsourcing to provide patients with personal, proactive, private data that they can use and be partners to us. So I see the patients as the best partners that I can use in order to provide better medicine. So let's take mobile, artificial intelligence, big data, personalized health record, and crowdsourcing, and build something, that's what we try to build in Alike. So we take all your data, we build your journey from cradle to grave, and then we look at the data. And we look by artificial intelligence, machine learning, deep learning, many things. Maybe you have neglected lab tests like hematuria that nobody looked at. Maybe we have deteriorating of hemoglobin within the range, as we showed you. Maybe your legs are swelling, and nobody looked that it might be because you take calcium blocker. Maybe you have hair loss, and nobody saw that you're taking Capoten because you go to a dermatologist and not to your family physician, et cetera, et cetera. So we've built an application that will tell you, upload to the application with your EMR. We'll ask you some more questions that you don't have within the EMR, and we'll show you, V is Varda, okay, how you're treated compared to other patients which are like you, the same age, gender, and comorbidities. You're treated with this, but those are your options. And if you want to talk with patients with your, exactly like you, same co-morbidities, the same drugs, you can talk to them. And we also explain to the patients about the lab tests. So you see first terminology. If you have a high level of potassium, it's called hyperkalemia, those are the trends. What would physicians do with patients like you with hyperkalemia? Would they ignore it? Would they do something? And do you want to talk with patients like you? You can always talk with patients exactly like you, who is more advanced in your journey or after you in your journey. And you can see how similar you are to another patient that you want to talk to him. Do you have the same treatment or the same diagnosis? And you can decide whether you want to talk to him. So actually, you get automatic second opinion from the data based on people like you and more. Because what we really need to do is to give you the best opportunity to have the best health. And I hope that many of you saw this movie, "Three Identical Strangers." It's about three identical twins that were separated when they were born. One was raised in a rich family, average, and very low income family. Nobody knew about his brother. And when they came to college, they found themselves. Look how similar they looked back then. But when they were 50, they are so different because there is a lot that we do from here to here, which is called all the epigenetics, what we do above the genetics. And I think we, the physicians, should give you the best opportunity to get out of your genes. One of them committed suicide. They had different diseases. It means that there is a lot of work to do. We can't do it by ourselves as physicians. We need you, the physicians, as partners. So the best way to predict the future is to create it. And that's what we try to do. And I'll be happy to get questions. Thank you. - Awesome. Thank you very much. Look, the, you were listing out all of the different Vs there, but think the one that sort of, you've really sort of illustrated to the audience as important is vision, right? That when you're going to be doing, when you're going to be doing work at, you know, the intersections of data and technology, you always have to see down the road to the application and then be asking, like, who am I doing this for? What am I creating it for? And in your case, the like, you know, the patient centricity is just amazing. I have never managed question and answer via this platform before. So this is a, you know, new mechanism. We have three different ways people can submit questions. So you can, you know, post them in the chat. You can post them in the webinar Q&A. Or you can just like raise your hand and we can hand it over to you. So questions for Varda? Somebody in the chat says, "Best ever, end to end." Excellent. Well maybe let me start by asking a question while people are figuring out the tech. So, you know, and jumping off, you know, jumping off from here, what's next? Like, what do you see as the biggest challenge for the next three or five years or so? - As I told you, I want to change, I did everything, you know, whatever I did for physicians to start from this side. I want to start now, it's like Uber, from the other side, from the patient side. I think that as family physicians, we try to see holistic and continuous, but we don't have the time and we don't have the tools and we don't have enough data. Because most of what is happening is outside to my office or to my clinic. So I think we have to build tools for the patients that will explain them the data, teach them the terminology, teach them whom they should consult with, whom should they ask, and help patients to help other patients and to know which questions to ask the physicians. - Super cool. And I'd love to be a beta tester. I'm always trying to figure out what I should be asking my doctor. You know, I make these long lists and things and I don't really have a clue. - Yeah, actually, that's the outcome that we do is recommendations. What should you ask your physician? But it's, yeah. - Awesome. We have a question in the feed from, you know, a listener from the Philippines. Apologies, I'm almost certainly gonna mispronounce your last name. Mary Rose Miksese, or Sese? She asks you, "What does one do to enter into a partnership with you guys? How do you sort of set up your data partnerships and collaborations?" - We are very open to different collaborations. People ask me, "How do you do it?" We do it openly. We say, 'Tell us what you need. We'll try to build you, to create a suit for you." So if you need data, we don't sell data. We just collaborate about the data. We'll help you to ask a good questions, good question, because by the way, we didn't talk about it, if you don't have a good question, you don't have a good answer. So many times I have startups that come, but question formulation is not good enough. And we have to work about the question. And then we collaborate. We write together, we'll get, we'll give you an anonymized data to work on the data and we can be a beta site for you. So there are many ways to collaborate, and we tailor it to everybody. - Excellent. And Paul Mucell. Oh, Ryan wants to answer the question live. Sorry, I'm getting notifications. - [Ryan] Oh no, Scott, I'm just dismissing answered questions. - Okay, great. Perfect. And Mary Rose says "Thank you." And Paul Mucell says, "Could you repeat a bit of information about the neutrophil episode? How did a difference in machine performance, hospital versus Maccabi, lead to a solution to the problem?" - Okay. So when you count the neutrophils, you have to do it somehow. Either you use one system like, within the neutrophil there is a material called myeloperoxidase. So in the machine of the hospital, what they do, they color the myeloperoxidase. And then they see, if it's myeloperoxidase, it means that it's a neutrophil and they know it. In Maccabi, we have a different system, not by myeloperoxidase, we color it differently. So they couldn't see the neutrophil. We could see the neutrophil. And just by seeing the difference, which was huge difference, we understood that something here, it's about the exam and not about the real neutrophil. And that's how we found out the diagnosis. - Awesome. And Serena Jane asks, "How can we, you know, get more hospitals to participate in getting data for machine learning? Like what's the pathway to sort of getting more data sharing?" - So, as I told you, many people will say, "No, it's privacy issues, we, our patients are private." We have many ways to do it, you know, anonymously. I think you have to find a good partner within the hospital, somebody that will be willing to do a change in his organization. That's actually the way, because otherwise, nobody has the incentive to do it. So if you find the right one to do the collaboration with you, that's the issue. And another thing is to show them what they can get out of it quickly. So when we do something, a collaboration, we always say, "Okay, we can use it for free in Maccabi." So for example, when we are doing now Alike with Maccabi, we'll allow Alike freely in Maccabi and will create a network of patients within Maccabi that will be able to collaborate between them within Maccabi. So Maccabi will get something about it. So that's the way. You have to give in order to get. - Makes perfect sense. All right, any further questions? Going once. A follow up question on the neutrophil question, Paul asks, "So when you know the neutrophil level is normal, does the diagnosis take a different path?" - Yes, because now it's not the method of the neutrophil number, it's the method of the diagnosis. We know that this patient has this diagnosis of myeloperoxidase deficiency, and we know how to treat myeloperoxidase deficiency. By the way, the mom that is the PhD, she found out that people with myeloperoxidase deficiency have less Alzheimer. So she founded a startup about myeloperoxidase deficiency in Alzheimer, and now she just got an investment about this startup. So it started from a small case, but it's grew for a few startups already. - Amazing. So not only is your organization producing startups, but your organization's patients, family members, are producing startups. - My patients are also startup creating. - (laughs) Totally fantastic. All right, last call for questions. Going once, going twice. All right. Let's all thank Varda. Thank you, as always, for being totally amazing. - Thank you very much. Thank you for the opportunity, and bye bye. - Bye. All right. So now we have a couple of minutes break before the next talk. So, you know, we'll. 