 Well I just finished up my drone test. I am filming in the car. They were very insistent that I not film in there... So, the big deal is I was really surprised. I've taken a lot of FAA test before. I am a pilot and licensed mechanic. This FAA test did not follow the study guide like I thought it would. I was surprised that there were several questions that were not in the FAA study guide. It is going to take me a day or at least a night to sort this out. In the morning, we will talk about the bottom line on this test. Alright it is the day after the test and it is time to have an adult conversation about this Part 107 UAS written test. A friend of mine told me that he had a friend who flew UAVs for a long time and he got a 95% on the test. I told him I thought was a lie. He said well he has been flying for a long time and I told him it didn't matter. Here is why just flying UAVs doesn't cut it. They asked a question that was "If your company was going to establish a safety management system, what steps would you want to go through". Safety management systems are something that scheduled airlines have. That was not in the Part 107 Test Guide. There was another question on there and that question was "Which conditions result in the formation of frost?" A) The temperature of the collecting surface is at or below freezing when small droplets of moisture fall on the surface. B) The temperature of the collecting surface is at or below dew point of the adjacent air and the dew point is below freezing. C) The temperature of the surrounding air is at or below freezing when small droplets of moisture fall on the collecting surface. That was not in this book. I am on page 25 of the FAA's remote pilot study guide and it is not in the book. The reason I found this is they use this for commercial pilot written test. That is why it is out there and how I found the database question. So, what I am saying is there is a lot stuff that is not on that study guide. Now to get to that answer you have to go to the pilots handbook of aeronautical knowledge. That is where the answer is at. That is the handbook they use for private pilots. The other thing that I want to talk about is human factors. The problem is they've put things on here like the "I Am Safe" checklist and you have to memorize what each one of these letters is. They asked me what the "M" stands for. I don't think you have to memorize that to fly a UAV in Afghanistan. I've taken several FAA test, I am a private pilot. I've took the FAA private pilot written test, I took the instrument written test, I took the airframe test, the FAA general test, and the FAA power-plant test. So I've taken a few test and this is typical FAA bureaucracy. They a really hard test and they also put things that are in the information that is on the test. Which drives you to have to study the test questions and frankly you are going to have to memorize some of this stuff if you want to get through this test clean. There's plenty of blog post and plenty of people who've gone out and failed this test. There are people who've passed. Then there are people who say they've got a 100% and I find that very hard to believe based on the fact that there's question on this test from this test on the commercial pilot exam. Now that we've got a few people take the test we've got a pretty good idea of what is on there. So I hope this has helped you a lot. We do have an online training program. UAV Training Group, there is a box to click to find out more. We will continue to put out more video content to help everybody as they navigate through this written test. 