RISK FACTORSOur business, operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common stock and preferred stock. Many of the following risks and uncertainties are, and will be, exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic and any worsening of the global business and economic environment as a result. The following material factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from historical results and those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf in filings with the SEC, press releases, communications with investors and oral statements.Risk Factors SummaryThe following is a summary of the principal risks that could adversely affect our business, operations and financial results.Risks Related to Our Business•The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has, and will likely continue to, negatively impact the global economy and disrupt normal business activity.•The majority of our sales come from a small number of customers and a reduction in demand or loss of one or more of our significant customers may adversely affect our business.•Dependence on contract manufacturing and suppliers of critical components within our supply chain may adversely affect our ability to bring products to market.•We purchase a significant amount of the materials used in our products from a limited number of suppliers.•Adverse global economic conditions could have a negative effect on us.•Global political and economic conditions and other factors related to our international operations could adversely affect us.•Our business is subject to various governmental regulations and trade restrictions. Compliance with these regulations may cause us to incur significant expense and, if we fail to maintain compliance, we may be forced to cease manufacture and distribution of certain products or subjected to civil or criminal penalties.•We are subject to risks associated with our distributors and other channel partners, including product inventory levels and product sell-through.•Our dependence on senior management and if we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, we may not be able to execute our business strategy effectively.•We may pursue acquisitions, investments, joint ventures and dispositions, which could adversely affect our results of operations.•We may be involved in legal proceedings, including IP, anti-competition and securities litigation, employee-related claims and regulatory investigations.•Our operating results are subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations.•Failure to adjust our manufacturing and supply chain to accurately meet customer demand could adversely affect our results of operations.•We operate in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry, which is subject to significant downturns.•Winning business in the semiconductor solutions industry is subject to a lengthy process that often requires us to incur significant expense, from which we may ultimately generate no revenue.•Competition in our industries could prevent us from growing our revenue.•A prolonged disruption of our manufacturing facilities, research and development facilities, warehouses or other significant operations, or those of our suppliers, could have a material adverse effect on us.•We may be unable to maintain appropriate manufacturing capacity or product yields at our own manufacturing facilities.•Any failure of our IT systems or one or more of our corporate infrastructure vendors to provide necessary services could have a material adverse effect on our business.•Our ability to maintain or improve gross margin.•Our ability to protect the significant amount of IP in our business. •Incompatibility of our software products with operating environments, platforms, or third-party products, demand for our products and services could decrease.•Failure to enter into software license agreements on a satisfactory basis could adversely affect us.13Table of Contents•Licensed third party software used in our products may not be available to us in the future, which may delay product development and production or cause us to incur additional expense.•Use of open source code sources, which, under certain circumstances could materially adversely affect us.•We are subject to warranty claims, product recalls and product liability.•The complexity of our products could result in unforeseen delays or expense or undetected defects or bugs.•We make substantial investments in research and development and unsuccessful investments could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.•We collect, use, store, or otherwise process personal information, which subjects us to privacy and data security laws and contractual commitments, and our actual or perceived failure to comply with such laws and commitments could harm our business.•We are subject to environmental, health and safety laws, which could increase our costs, restrict our operations and require expenditures.•Social and environmental responsibility regulations, policies and provisions, as well as customer demand, may make our supply chain more complex and may adversely affect our relationships with customers.•The average selling prices of semiconductor products in our markets have often decreased rapidly and may do so in the future.•A breach of our security systems may have a material adverse effect on our business.•Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could result in losses.Risks Relating to Taxes•Changes in tax legislation or policies could materially impact our financial position and results of operations.•Our corporate income taxes could significantly increase if we are unable to maintain our tax concessions or if our assumptions and interpretations regarding tax laws and concessions prove to be incorrect.•Our benefit from income taxes and overall cash tax costs are affected by a number of factors that could materially, adversely affect financial results.Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness•Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and our ability to execute our business strategy.•The instruments governing our indebtedness impose certain restrictions on our business.•Servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flows from our business to pay our substantial debt.Risks Relating to Owning Our Common Stock•Volatility of our stock price could result in substantial losses for our investors as well as class action litigation against us and our management.•A substantial amount of our stock is held by a small number of large investors.•There can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends.For a more complete discussion of the material risks facing our business, see below.Risks Related to Our BusinessThe ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has, and will likely continue to, negatively impact the global economy and disrupt normal business activity, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations.The global spread of COVID-19 and the efforts to control it have slowed global economic activity and disrupted, and reduced the efficiency of, normal business activities in much of the world. The pandemic has resulted in authorities around the world implementing numerous unprecedented measures such as travel restrictions, quarantines, shelter in place orders, and factory and office shutdowns. These measures have impacted, and will likely continue to impact our workforce and operations, and those of our customers, contract manufacturers (“CMs”), suppliers and logistics providers, particularly in the event of a significant global resurgence of the illness. 14Table of ContentsWe have been, and expect to continue, experiencing some disruption to parts of our global semiconductor supply chain, with suppliers increasing lead times or placing products on allocation, including procuring necessary components and inputs, such as wafers and substrates, in a timely fashion. In addition, our primary warehouse and a number of our key suppliers, particularly assembly and test service providers, are in Malaysia. While our Malaysia warehouse has remained fully operational, many of the facilities of our key suppliers and other service providers were shut down or operated at reduced capacity for extended periods. This resulted in significant logistical challenges and product delays, which could recur in the event of any future closures of, or periods of reduced operations at, our warehouse or the facilities of our suppliers and providers. Any similar disruption at our Fort Collins, Colorado manufacturing facility would severely impact our ability to manufacture our FBAR products and adversely affect our wireless business. In addition, disruptions to commercial transportation infrastructure have increased delivery times for materials and components to our facilities, transfers of our products to our key suppliers and, in some cases, our ability to timely ship our products to customers. As a result of these supply chain disruptions, we have increased customer order lead times and placed some products on allocation. We are also largely building semiconductor products to order, instead of based on customer forecasts, in light of the ongoing uncertainty. This may limit our ability to fulfill orders and we may be unable to satisfy all of the demand for our products, which may adversely affect our relationships with our customers.In response to governmental directives and recommended safety measures, we modified our workplace practices globally, which has resulted in many of our employees working remotely for extended periods of time. While we have implemented a phased-in return of employees to many of our facilities, if the spread of COVID-19 worsens significantly, we may need to further limit onsite operations or otherwise modify our business practices in a manner that may adversely impact our business. Working remotely for extended periods may reduce our employees’ efficiency and productivity, which may cause product development delays, hamper new product innovation and have other unforeseen adverse effects on our business. In addition, if a significant number of our employees, or employees and third parties performing key functions, including our CEO and members of our board of directors, become ill, our business may be further adversely impacted. While we have implemented personal safety measures at all of our facilities where our employees are working onsite, any actions we take may not be sufficient to mitigate the risk of infection and could result in a significant number of COVID-19-related claims. Changes to state workers’ compensation laws, as have recently occurred in California, may increase our potential liability for such claims.In the longer-term, the COVID-19 pandemic is likely to adversely affect the economies and financial markets of many countries, and could result in a global economic downturn and a recession. This would likely adversely affect demand for our products and those of our customers, particularly consumer products such as smartphones, which may, in turn negatively impact our results of operations. However, there is a significant degree of uncertainty and lack of visibility as to the extent and duration of any such downturn or recession. While we continue to see robust demand in our semiconductor segment, and have seen little impact to our software business from the COVID-19 pandemic, the environment remains uncertain and it may not be sustainable over the longer term. The degree to which the pandemic ultimately impacts our business and results of operations will depend on future developments beyond our control, including the severity of the pandemic, the extent of actions to contain the virus, availability of a vaccine or other treatment, how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating conditions can resume, and the severity and duration of the global economic downturn that results from the pandemic. The majority of our sales come from a small number of customers and a reduction in demand or loss of one or more of our significant customers may adversely affect our business.We are dependent on a small number of end customers, OEMs, their respective CMs, and certain distributors for a majority of our business, revenue and results of operations. For fiscal year 2020, sales to distributors accounted for 42% of our net revenue. We believe aggregate sales, through all channels, to Apple and our top five end customers, accounted for approximately 15% and more than 30% of our net revenue for fiscal year 2020, respectively. This customer concentration increases the risk of quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and our sensitivity to any material, adverse developments experienced by our significant customers.The terms and conditions under which we do business with most of our semiconductor customers generally do not include commitments by those customers to purchase any specific quantities of products from us. Even in those instances where we enter into an arrangement under which a customer agrees to source an agreed portion of its product needs from us (provided that we are able to meet specified development, supply and quality commitments), the arrangement often includes pricing schedules or methodologies that apply regardless of the volume of products purchased, and those customers may not purchase the amount of product we expect. As a result, we may not generate the amount of revenue or the level of profitability we expect under such arrangements. Moreover, our top customers’ purchasing power has, in some cases, given them the ability to make greater demands on us with regard to pricing and contractual terms in general. We expect this trend to continue, which may adversely affect our gross margin on certain products and, should we fail to perform under these arrangements, we could also be liable for significant monetary damages.15Table of ContentsThe loss of, or any substantial reduction in sales to, any of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Dependence on contract manufacturing and suppliers of critical components within our supply chain may adversely affect our ability to bring products to market, damage our reputation and adversely affect our results of operations.We operate a primarily outsourced manufacturing business model that principally utilizes CMs, such as third-party wafer foundries and module assembly and test capabilities. Our semiconductor products require wafer manufacturers with state-of-the-art fabrication equipment and techniques, and most of our products are designed to be manufactured in a specific process, typically at one particular fab or foundry, either our own or with a particular CM.We depend on our CMs to allocate sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet our needs, to produce products of acceptable quality at acceptable yields, and to deliver those products to us on a timely basis. We do not generally have long-term capacity commitments with our CMs and substantially all of our manufacturing services are on a purchase order basis with no obligation to provide us with any specified minimum quantities of product. Further, from time to time, our CMs will cease to, or will become unable to, manufacture a component for us. As the lead time needed to identify, qualify and establish reliable production at acceptable yields, with a new CM is typically lengthy, there is often no readily available alternative source and there may be other constraints on our ability to change CMs. In addition, qualifying such CMs is often expensive, and they may not produce products as cost-effectively as our current suppliers. In any such circumstances, we may be unable to meet our customer demand and may fail to meet our contractual obligations. This could result in the payment of significant damages by us to our customers, and our net revenue could decline, adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations.We utilize TSMC to produce the substantial majority of our semiconductor wafers. TSMC manufactured approximately 87% of the wafers manufactured by our CMs during fiscal year 2020. Our wafer requirements represent a significant portion of the total production capacity of TSMC. However, TSMC also fabricates wafers for other companies, including certain of our competitors, and could choose to prioritize capacity for other customers or reduce or eliminate deliveries to us on short notice, or raise their prices to us, all of which could harm our business, results of operations and gross margin. For example, Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd. (“Huawei”), as well as many of its suppliers, have significantly increased their wafer orders from TSMC due to certain U.S. export restrictions on sales to Huawei. This has caused, and may continue to cause, some dislocations in the semiconductor supply chain which may result in reduced or untimely wafer deliveries to us.Any substantial disruption in TSMC’s supply of wafers to us, or in the other contract manufacturing services that we utilize, as a result of a natural disaster, political unrest, military conflict, geopolitical turmoil, trade tensions, medical epidemics, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, climate change, economic instability, equipment failure or other cause, could materially harm our business, customer relationships and results of operations.We also depend on our CMs to timely develop new, advanced manufacturing processes, including, in the case of wafer fabrication, transitions to smaller geometry process technologies. If these new processes are not timely developed or we do not have sufficient access to them, we may be unable to maintain or increase our manufacturing efficiency to the same extent as our competitors or to deliver products to our customers, which could result in loss of revenue opportunities and damage our relationships with our customers.We purchase a significant amount of the materials used in our products from a limited number of suppliers.Our manufacturing processes and those of our CMs rely on many materials, including silicon, GaAs and InP wafers, copper lead frames, precious and rare earth metals, mold compound, ceramic packages and various chemicals and gases. We purchase a significant portion of our materials, components and finished goods used in our products from a few materials providers, some of which are single source suppliers. As certain materials are highly specialized, the lead time needed to identify and qualify a new supplier is typically lengthy and there is often no readily available alternative source. During fiscal year 2020, we purchased approximately two-thirds of the materials for our manufacturing processes from six materials providers. We do not generally have long-term contracts with our materials providers and substantially all of our purchases are on a purchase order basis. Suppliers may extend lead times, limit supplies, place products on allocation or increase prices due to commodity price increases, capacity constraints or other factors and could lead to interruption of supply or increased demand in the industry. For example, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we have experienced some supply constraints, including with respect to wafers and substrates. Additionally, the supply of these materials may be negatively impacted by increased trade tensions between the U.S. and its trading partners, particularly China. In the event that we cannot timely obtain sufficient quantities of materials or at reasonable prices, the quality of the material deteriorates or we are not able to pass on higher materials or energy costs to our customers, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted.16Table of ContentsAdverse global economic conditions could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and liquidity.A general slowdown in the global economy or in a particular region or industry, an increase in trade tensions with U.S. trading partners or a tightening of the credit markets could negatively impact our business, financial condition and liquidity. Adverse global economic conditions have from time to time caused or exacerbated significant slowdowns in the industries and markets in which we operate, which have adversely affected our business and results of operations. In recent periods, investor and customer concerns about the global economic outlook, which have significantly increased as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, have adversely affected market and business conditions in general. Macroeconomic weakness and uncertainty also make it more difficult for us to accurately forecast revenue, gross margin and expenses, and may make it more difficult to raise or refinance debt. An escalation of trade tensions between the U.S. and China has resulted in trade restrictions and increased tariffs that harm our ability to participate in Chinese markets or compete effectively with Chinese companies. Sustained uncertainty about, or worsening of, current global economic conditions and further escalation of trade tensions between the U.S. and its trading partners, especially China and possible decoupling of the U.S. and China economies, could result in a global economic slowdown and long-term changes to global trade. Such events may also (i) cause our customers and consumers to reduce, delay or forgo technology spending, (ii) result in customers sourcing products from other suppliers not subject to such restrictions or tariffs, (iii) lead to the insolvency or consolidation of key suppliers and customers, and (iv) intensify pricing pressures. Any or all of these factors could negatively affect demand for our products and our business, financial condition and results of operations.Global political and economic conditions and other factors related to our international operations could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.A majority of our products are produced, sourced and sold internationally and our international revenue represents a significant percentage of our overall revenue. In addition, as of November 1, 2020, approximately 49% of our employees were located outside the U.S. Multiple factors relating to our international operations and to particular countries in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These factors include:•changes in political, regulatory, legal or economic conditions or geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism, war or political or military coups, or civil disturbances or political instability foreign and domestic;•restrictive governmental actions, such as restrictions on the transfer or repatriation of funds and foreign investments, data privacy regulations and trade protection measures, including increasing protectionism, import/export restrictions, import/export duties and quotas, trade sanctions and customs duties and tariffs, all of which have increased under the current U.S. administration;•difficulty in obtaining product distribution and support, and transportation delays;•potential inability to localize software products for a significant number of international markets;•difficulty in conducting due diligence with respect to business partners in certain international markets;•public health or safety concerns, medical epidemics or pandemics, such as COVID-19, and other natural- or man-made disasters;•nationalization of businesses and expropriation of assets; and•changes in U.S. and foreign tax laws.A significant legal risk associated with conducting business internationally is compliance with the various and differing laws and regulations of the many countries in which we do business. In addition, the laws in various countries are constantly evolving and may, in some cases, conflict with each other. Although our policies prohibit us, our employees and our agents from engaging in unethical business practices, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, distributors or other agents will refrain from acting in violation of our related anti-corruption or other policies and procedures. Any such violation could have a material adverse effect on our business.Our business is subject to various governmental regulations, and compliance with these regulations may cause us to incur significant expense. If we fail to maintain compliance with applicable regulations, we may be forced to cease the manufacture and distribution of certain products, and we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties.Our business is subject to various international laws and other legal requirements, including packaging, product content, labor and import/export regulations, such as the U.S. Export Administration Regulations, and applicable executive orders. These laws, regulations and orders are complex, may change frequently and with limited notice, have generally become more stringent over time and have intensified under the current U.S. administration, especially in light of ongoing trade tensions 17Table of Contentswith China. We may be required to incur significant expense to comply with, or to remedy violations of, these regulations. In addition, if our customers fail to comply with these regulations, we may be required to suspend sales to these customers, which could damage our reputation and negatively impact our results of operations. For example, Huawei, one of our customers, is subject to certain U.S. export restrictions, which has required us to suspend sales to Huawei until we obtain licenses from the U.S. Department of Commerce, which we may be unable to do so in a timely manner or at all. The U.S. government may also add additional Chinese companies to its restricted entity list and/or technologies to its list of prohibited exports to China, all of which have and will adversely affect our ability to sell our products and our revenue. These restrictive governmental actions and any similar measures that may be imposed on U.S. companies by the Chinese or other governments will likely limit or prevent us from doing business with certain of our customers or suppliers and harm our ability to compete effectively or otherwise negatively affect our ability to sell our products, and adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, the manufacture and distribution of our semiconductors must comply with various laws and adapt to changes in regulatory requirements as they occur. For example, if a country in which our products are manufactured or sold sets technical standards that are not widely shared, it may require us to stop distributing our products commercially until they comply with such new standards, lead certain of our customers to suspend imports of their products into that country, require manufacturers in that country to manufacture products with different technical standards and disrupt cross-border manufacturing relationships, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we could also be required to pay civil penalties or face criminal prosecution. Our products and operations are also subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies, like the International Standards Organization, as well as regulation by other agencies, such as the FTC. If we fail to adequately address any of these rules or regulations, our business could be harmed.We are subject to risks associated with our distributors and other channel partners, including product inventory levels and product sell-through.We sell our products through a direct sales force and a select network of distributors and other channel partners globally. Sales to distributors accounted for 42% of our net revenue in the fiscal year ended November 1, 2020 and are subject to a number of risks, including:•fluctuations in demand based on our distributors’ product inventory levels and end customer demand in a given quarter;•our distributors and other channel partners are generally not subject to minimum sales requirements or any obligation to market our products to their customers;•our distributors and other channel partners agreements are generally nonexclusive and may be terminated at any time without cause;•our lack of control over the timing of delivery of our products to end customers; and•our distributors and other channel partners may market and distribute competing products and may place greater emphasis on the sale of these products.In addition, we are selling our semiconductor products through an increasingly limited number of distributors, which exposes us to additional customer concentration and related credit risks. We do not always have a direct relationship with the end customers of our products. As a result, our semiconductor products may be used in applications for which they were not necessarily designed or tested, including, for example, medical devices, and they may not perform as anticipated in such applications. In such event, failure of even a small number of parts could result in significant liabilities to us, damage our reputation and harm our business and results of operations.Our business would be adversely affected by the departure of existing members of our senior management team.Our success depends, in large part, on the continued contributions of our senior management team, and in particular, the services of Mr. Hock E. Tan, our President and Chief Executive Officer. Effective succession planning is also important for our long-term success. Failure to ensure effective transfers of knowledge and smooth transitions involving senior management could hinder our strategic planning and execution. None of our senior management is bound by written employment contracts. In addition, we do not currently maintain key person life insurance covering our senior management. The loss of any of our senior management could harm our ability to implement our business strategy and respond to the rapidly changing market conditions in which we operate.18Table of ContentsIf we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, especially our engineering and technical personnel, we may not be able to execute our business strategy effectively.Our future success depends on our ability to retain, attract and motivate qualified personnel. We also seek to acquire talented engineering and technical personnel (including cyber security experts), as well as effective sales professionals, through acquisitions we may make from time to time or otherwise. As the source of our technological and product innovations, our engineering and technical personnel are a significant asset. Competition for these employees is significant in many areas of the world in which we operate, particularly in Silicon Valley and Southeast Asia where qualified engineers are in high demand. In addition, current or future immigration laws may make it more difficult to hire or retain qualified engineers, further limiting the pool of available talent. Further, our employees may decide not to continue working for us and may leave with little or no notice. We grant equity awards to the substantial majority of our employees and we believe these awards provide a powerful long-term retention incentive to our employees; however, we may be incorrect in this assumption, particularly if there is a material and persistent decline in the price of our common stock. In addition, we may be unable to obtain required stockholder approvals of future equity compensation plans needed to continue with our current equity granting philosophy. As a result, we may be limited in our ability to grant equity-based incentives, which may impair our efforts to attract and retain necessary personnel. Any inability to retain, attract or motivate such personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We may pursue acquisitions, investments, joint ventures and dispositions, which could adversely affect our results of operations.Our growth strategy includes acquiring or investing in businesses that offer complementary products, services and technologies, or enhance our market coverage or technological capabilities. Any acquisitions we may undertake and their integration involve risks 