RISK FACTORSOur business, operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common stock and preferred stock. The following important factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from historical results and those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf in filings with the SEC, press releases, communications with investors and oral statements.Risks Related to Our BusinessThe majority of our sales come from a small number of customers and a reduction in demand or loss of one or more of our significant customers may adversely affect our business.We are dependent on a small number of end customers, OEMs, their respective contract manufacturers, and certain distributors for a majority of our business, revenue and results of operations. For fiscal years 2019 and 2018, sales to distributors accounted for 46% and 34% of our net revenue, respectively. Direct sales to WT Microelectronics accounted for 17% of our net revenue for fiscal year 2019. We believe our aggregate sales to our top five end customers, through all channels, accounted for more than 30% and more than 40% of our net revenue for fiscal years 2019 and 2018, respectively. We believe aggregate sales to Apple Inc., through all channels, accounted for approximately 20% of our net revenue for fiscal year 2019 and approximately 25% for fiscal year 2018. This customer concentration increases the risk of quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and our sensitivity to any material, adverse developments experienced by our significant customers.In addition, our top customers’ purchasing power has, in some cases, given them the ability to make greater demands on us with regard to pricing and contractual terms in general. We expect this trend to continue, which may adversely affect our gross margin on certain products and, should we fail to comply with such terms, might also result in substantial liability that could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.Moreover, the terms and conditions under which we do business with most of our semiconductor customers generally do not include commitments by those customers to purchase any specific quantities of products from us. Even in those instances where we enter into an arrangement under which a customer agrees to source an agreed portion of its product needs from us (provided that we are able to meet specified development, supply and quality commitments), the arrangement often includes pricing schedules or methodologies that apply regardless of the volume of products purchased, and those customers may not purchase the amount of product we expect. As a result, we may not generate the amount of revenue or the level of profitability we expect under such arrangements. If we do not perform under these arrangements, we could also be liable for significant monetary damages. In addition, we are selling an increasing amount of our semiconductor products through a limited number of distributors, which may expose us to additional customer concentration and related credit risks.The loss of, or any substantial reduction in sales to, any of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Dependence on contract manufacturing and suppliers of critical components within our supply chain may adversely affect our ability to bring products to market, damage our reputation and adversely affect our results of operations.We operate a primarily outsourced manufacturing business model that principally utilizes third-party wafer foundry and module assembly and test capabilities, referred to as contract manufacturers. Our semiconductor products require semiconductor wafer manufacturers with state-of-the-art fabrication equipment and techniques, and most of our products are designed to be manufactured in a specific process, typically at one particular fab or foundry, either our own or with a particular contract manufacturer.We depend on our contract manufacturers to allocate sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet our needs, to produce products of acceptable quality at acceptable yields, and to deliver those products to us on a timely basis. Although we often have long-term contracts with our contract manufacturers, we do not generally have long-term capacity commitments. We obtain substantially all of our manufacturing services on a purchase order basis and our contract manufacturers have no obligation to provide us with any specified minimum quantities of product. Further, from time to time, our contract manufacturers will cease to, or will become unable to, manufacture a component for us. As the lead time needed to identify, qualify and establish reliable production at acceptable yields, with a new contract manufacturer is typically lengthy, there is often no readily available alternative source for the wafers or other contract manufacturing services we require, and there may be other constraints on our ability to change contract manufacturers. In addition, qualifying such contract manufacturers is often expensive, and they may not produce products as cost-effectively as our current suppliers, which would reduce our margins. In any such circumstances, we may be unable to meet our customer demand and may fail to meet our contractual obligations. This could result in the payment of significant damages by us to our customers, and our net revenue could decline, adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations.13Table of ContentsWe utilize TSMC to produce the substantial majority of our semiconductor wafers. TSMC manufactured approximately 85% of the wafers manufactured by our contract manufacturers during fiscal year 2019. Our wafer requirements represent a significant portion of the total production capacity of TSMC. However, TSMC also fabricates wafers for other companies, including certain of our competitors, and could choose to prioritize capacity for other customers or reduce or eliminate deliveries to us on short notice, or raise their prices to us, all of which could harm our business, results of operations and gross margin.Any substantial disruption in TSMC’s supply of wafers to us, or in the other contract manufacturing services that we utilize, as a result of a natural disaster, political unrest, military conflict, economic instability, equipment failure or other cause, could materially harm our business, customer relationships and results of operations.We also depend on our contract manufacturers to timely develop new, advanced manufacturing processes, including, in the case of wafer fabrication, transitions to smaller geometry process technologies. If these new processes are not timely developed or we do not have sufficient access to them, we may be unable to maintain or increase our manufacturing efficiency to the same extent as our competitors or to deliver products to our customers, which could result in loss of revenue opportunities and damage our relationships with our customers.We purchase a significant amount of the materials used in our products from a limited number of suppliers.Our manufacturing processes and those of our contract manufacturers rely on many materials, including silicon, gallium arsenide and indium phosphide wafers, copper lead frames, precious and rare earth metals, mold compound, ceramic packages and various chemicals and gases. We purchase a significant portion of our semiconductor materials, components and finished goods used in our products from a few materials providers, some of which are single source suppliers. During the fiscal year 2019, we purchased more than two-thirds of the materials for our manufacturing processes from five materials providers. Substantially all of our purchases are on a purchase order basis, and we do not generally have long-term contracts with our materials providers. Suppliers may extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to commodity price increases, capacity constraints or other factors, which may lead to interruption of supply or increased demand in the industry. In the event that we cannot timely obtain sufficient quantities of materials or at reasonable prices, the quality of the material deteriorates or we are not able to pass on higher materials or energy costs to our customers, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted.Adverse global economic conditions could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and liquidity.A general slowdown in the global economy or in a particular region or industry, an increase in trade tensions with U.S. trading partners or a tightening of the credit markets could negatively impact our business, financial condition and liquidity. Adverse global economic conditions have from time to time caused or exacerbated significant slowdowns in the industries and markets in which we operate, which have adversely affected our business and results of operations. In recent periods, investor and customer concerns about the global economic outlook have adversely affected market and business conditions in general. Macroeconomic weakness and uncertainty also make it more difficult for us to accurately forecast revenue, gross margin and expenses, and may make it more difficult to raise or refinance debt. An escalation of recent trade tensions between the U.S. and China has resulted in trade restrictions and increased tariffs that harm our ability to participate in Chinese markets or compete effectively with Chinese companies. Sustained uncertainty about, or worsening of, current global economic conditions and further escalation of trade tensions between the U.S. and its trading partners, especially China, could result in a global economic slowdown and long-term changes to global trade. Such events may also (i) cause our customers and consumers to reduce, delay or forgo technology spending, (ii) result in customers sourcing products from other suppliers not subject to such restrictions or tariffs, (iii) lead to the insolvency or consolidation of key suppliers and customers, and (iv) intensify pricing pressures. Any or all of these factors could negatively affect demand for our products and our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by the political and economic conditions of the countries in which we conduct business and other factors related to our international operations.A majority of our products are produced, sourced and sold internationally and our international revenue represents a significant percentage of our overall revenue. In addition, as of November 3, 2019, approximately 51% of our employees are located outside the U.S. Multiple factors relating to our international operations and to particular countries in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These factors include:•changes in political, regulatory, legal or economic conditions or geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism, war or political or military coups, or civil disturbances or political instability;14Table of Contents•restrictive governmental actions, such as restrictions on the transfer or repatriation of funds and foreign investments, data privacy regulations and trade protection measures, including increasing protectionism, import/export restrictions, import/export duties and quotas, trade sanctions and customs duties and tariffs, all of which have increased under the current U.S. administration;•difficulty in obtaining product distribution and support, and transportation delays;•potential inability to localize software products for a significant number of international markets;•difficulty in conducting due diligence with respect to business partners in certain international markets;•public health or safety concerns;•nationalization of businesses and expropriation of assets; and•changes in tax laws.A significant legal risk associated with conducting business internationally is compliance with the various and differing laws and regulations, including anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws and regulations, of the countries in which we do business, antitrust and competition laws, data privacy laws, money-laundering regulations and export regulations. In addition, the laws in various countries are constantly evolving and may, in some cases, conflict with each other. Although our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and other policies prohibit us, our employees and our agents from engaging in unethical business practices, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, distributors or other agents will refrain from acting in violation of our related anti-corruption policies and procedures. Any such violation could have a material adverse effect on our business.We may pursue acquisitions, investments, joint ventures and dispositions, which could adversely affect our results of operations.Our growth strategy includes the acquisition of, and investment in, businesses that offer complementary products, services and technologies, augment our market coverage, or enhance our technological capabilities, such as our recent acquisition of the Symantec Business. We may also enter into strategic alliances or joint ventures to achieve these goals. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition, investment, alliance, or joint venture opportunities, or to consummate any such transactions. In addition, our original estimates and assumptions used in assessing any transaction may be inaccurate and we may not realize the expected financial or strategic benefits of any such transaction, including our recent acquisition of the Symantec Business.Any acquisitions we may undertake and their integration, including our recent acquisition of the Symantec Business, involve risks and uncertainties, such as:•unexpected delays, challenges and related expenses, and disruption of our business;•diversion of management’s attention from daily operations and the pursuit of other opportunities;•our ability to effectively identify and timely transfer acquired assets and liabilities;•the need to assign or novate acquired customer contracts;•our ability to identify and directly hire acquired company or business employees;•our ability to identify, manage and coordinate the performance of acquired company or business personnel providing services to us on a transitional basis or under third party transition services agreements;•incurring significant restructuring charges and amortization expense, assuming liabilities and ongoing lawsuits, potential impairment of acquired goodwill and other intangible assets, and increasing our expenses and working capital requirements; •implementing our management information systems, operating systems and internal controls for the acquired operations;•our due diligence process may fail to identify significant issues with the acquired company’s products, financial disclosures, accounting practices, legal, tax and other contingencies, compliance with local laws and regulations (and interpretations thereof) in multiple international jurisdictions, as well as compliance with U.S. laws and regulations;•additional acquisition-related debt, which could increase our leverage and potentially negatively affect our credit ratings resulting in more restrictive borrowing terms or increased borrowing costs thereby limiting our ability to borrow; and•dilution of stock ownership of existing stockholders. 15Table of ContentsIn addition, regulatory approvals required in connection with an acquisition, such as those from the U.S. Department of Justice, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”), the European Commission Directorate-General for Competition or, where applicable, the China State Administration for Market Regulation, may take longer than anticipated to obtain, may not be obtained at all or may contain materially burdensome conditions. If any conditions or changes to the structure of an acquisition are required to obtain these regulatory approvals, they may have the effect of jeopardizing or delaying completion of such acquisition or reducing our anticipated benefits of the transaction. If we agree to any material conditions in order to obtain any such approvals or if we fail to comply with any such conditions, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected.These difficulties may be complicated by factors such as the size of the business or entity acquired, geographic and cultural differences, lack of experience operating in the industry or geographic markets of the acquired business, potential loss of key employees and customers, the potential for deficiencies in internal controls at the acquired or combined business, performance problems with the acquired business’ technology, failure to realize the benefits of transition services arrangements, exposure to unanticipated liabilities of the acquired business, insufficient revenue to offset increased expenses associated with the acquisition, adverse tax consequences and our potential inability to achieve the growth prospects or synergies expected from any such acquisition.If we fail to complete an announced acquisition, our stock price could fall to the extent the price reflects an assumption that such acquisition will be completed, and we may incur significant unrecoverable costs. Further, the failure to consummate an acquisition may result in negative publicity and adversely impact our relationships with our customers, vendors and employees. We may become subject to legal proceedings relating to the acquisition and the integration of acquired businesses may not be successful. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquired businesses, achieve anticipated levels of profitability of the acquired business, improve margins of the acquired businesses and products, or realize other anticipated benefits of an acquisition could materially harm our business, operating results and margins.From time to time, we may also seek to divest or wind down portions of our business, either acquired or otherwise, or we may exit minority investments, each of which could materially affect our cash flows and results of operations. Any future dispositions we may make could involve risks and uncertainties, including our ability to sell such businesses on terms acceptable to us, or at all. In addition, any such dispositions could result in disruption to other parts of our business, potential loss of employees or customers, or exposure to unanticipated liabilities or ongoing obligations to us following any such dispositions. For example, in connection with such dispositions, we often enter into transition services agreements or other strategic relationships, including long-term research and development arrangements and sales arrangements, or agree to provide certain indemnities to the purchaser, which may result in additional expenses and may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, dispositions may include the transfer of technology and/or the licensing of certain IP rights to third-party purchasers, which could limit our ability to utilize such IP rights or assert these rights against such third-party purchasers or other third parties.Our business is subject to various governmental regulations, and compliance with these regulations may cause us to incur significant expense. If we fail to maintain compliance with applicable regulations, we may be forced to cease the manufacture and distribution of certain products, and we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties.Our business is subject to various international laws and other legal requirements, including packaging, product content, labor and import/export regulations, such as the U.S. Export Administration Regulations, and applicable executive orders, and many of our semiconductor products are regulated or sold into regulated industries. These laws, regulations and orders are complex, may change frequently and with limited notice, have generally become more stringent over time and have intensified under the current U.S. administration, especially in light of recent trade tensions with China. We may be required to incur significant expense to comply with, or to remedy violations of, these regulations. In addition, if our customers fail to comply with these regulations, we may be required to suspend sales to these customers, which could damage our reputation and negatively impact our results of operations. For example, on May 15, 2019, the U.S. Department of Commerce added Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd., one of our customers, to its “Entity List” and placed certain export restrictions on Huawei and its suppliers, which required us to suspend certain sales to Huawei during the pendency of such restrictions and which has had a corresponding adverse effect on our revenue.In addition, the manufacture and distribution of our semiconductors must comply with various laws and adapt to changes in regulatory requirements as they occur. For example, if a country in which our products are manufactured or sold sets technical standards that are not widely shared, it may require us to stop distributing our products commercially until they comply with such new standards, lead certain of our customers to suspend imports of their products into that country, require manufacturers in that country to manufacture products with different technical standards and disrupt cross-border manufacturing relationships, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we could also be required to pay civil penalties or face criminal prosecution. In addition, it is expected that the current U.S. administration’s trade policy will promote U.S. manufacturing and 16Table of Contentsmanufacturers. It is unclear what effect this will have on us as a multinational company that conducts business world-wide, or on our suppliers, customers, contract manufacturers and OEMs.Our products and operations are also subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies, like the International Standards Organization, as well as regulation by other agencies, such as the FTC. If we fail to adequately address any of these rules or regulations, our business could be harmed.We are subject to risks associated with our distributors and other channel partners, including product inventory levels and product sell-through.We sell our products through a direct sales force and a select network of distributors and other channel partners globally. Sales to distributors accounted for 46% of our net revenue in fiscal year 2019 and are subject to a number of risks, including:•fluctuations in demand based on our distributors’ product inventory levels and end customer demand in a given quarter;  •our distributors and other channel partners are generally not subject to minimum sales requirements or any obligation to market our products to their customers;•our distributors and other channel partners agreements are generally nonexclusive and may be terminated at any time without cause;•our lack of control over the timing of delivery of our products to end customers;•our distributors and other channel partners may market and distribute competing products and may, from time to time, place greater emphasis on the sale of these products due to pricing, promotions and other terms offered by our competitors; and•dependence on a limited number of semiconductor distributors may exacerbate the foregoing risks and increase our related credit risk.One of our significant distributors, Tech Data Corporation, recently agreed to be acquired by a private equity firm, which may result in a change in their operations, business focus and financial capacity. If and when completed, this could adversely affect our relationship with, and ability to sell products to, them.We do not always have a direct relationship with the end customers of our products. As a result, our semiconductor products may be used in applications for which they were not necessarily designed or tested, including, for example, medical devices, and they may not perform as anticipated in such applications. In such event, failure of even a small number of parts could result in significant liabilities to us, damage our reputation and harm our business and results of operations.Our business would be adversely affected by the departure of existing members of our senior management team.Our success depends, in large part, on the continued contributions of our senior management team, and in particular, the services of Mr. Hock E. Tan, our President and Chief Executive Officer. Effective succession planning is also important for our long-term success. Failure to ensure effective transfers of knowledge and smooth transitions involving senior management could hinder our strategic planning and execution. None of our senior management is bound by written employment contracts. In addition, we do not currently maintain key person life insurance covering our senior management. The loss of any of our senior management could harm our ability to implement our business strategy and respond to the rapidly changing market conditions in which we operate.If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, especially our engineering and technical personnel, we may not be able to execute our business strategy effectively.Our future success depends on our ability to retain, attract and motivate qualified personnel. We also seek to acquire talented engineering and technical personnel (including cybersecurity experts), as well as effective sales professionals, through acquisitions we may make from time to time or otherwise. We have historically encountered some difficulties in hiring and retaining qualified engineers, particularly in Silicon Valley and Southeast Asia where qualified engineers are in high demand. In addition, current or future immigration laws may make it more difficult to hire or retain qualified engineers, further limiting the pool of available talent. Further, our employees, including employees whom we have retained as a result of an acquisition, may decide not to continue working for us and may leave with little or no notice. As the source of our technological and product innovations, our engineering and technical personnel are a significant asset. We have granted multi-year equity awards to most of our employees. These awards approximate four consecutive annual grants that vest in four tranches with successive four-year vesting periods. While we believe these awards provide a powerful long-term retention incentive to employees, we may be incorrect in this assumption, particularly if there is a material and persistent decline in the price of our stock. In addition, we may be unable to obtain required stockholder approvals of future equity compensation plans. As a result, we may be limited in granting equity-based incentives and may impair our efforts to attract and retain necessary 17Table of Contentspersonnel. Any inability to retain, attract or motivate such personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We may be involved in legal proceedings, including IP, anti-competition and securities litigation, employee-related claims and regulatory investigations, which could, among other things, divert efforts of management and result in significant expense and loss of our IP rights.We are often involved in legal proceedings, including cases involving our IP rights and those of others, anti-competition and commercial matters, acquisition-related suits, securities class action suits, employee-related claims and other actions. Some of these actions may seek injunctive relief, including injunctions or exclusion orders against the sale of our products and substantial monetary damages, which if granted or awarded could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, we may also be involved or required to participate in regulatory investigations or inquiries, such as the ongoing investigations by the FTC and the European Commission into certain of our contracting practices, which may evolve into legal or other administrative proceedings. Litigation or settlement of such actions, regardless of their merit, or involvement in regulatory investigations or inquiries, can be complex, can extend for a protracted period of time, can divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel, and is frequently costly, with the related expenditures unpredictable. An unfavorable resolution of a governmental investigation may include, among others, fines or other orders to disgorge profits or make other payments, and/or the issuance of orders to cease certain conduct and/or modify our contracting practices, any or all of which could materially adversely affect our reputation and our business, financial condition and results of operations.The industries in which we operate are characterized by companies holding large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and by the vigorous pursuit, protection and enforcement of IP rights, including actions by patent-holding companies that do not make or sell products. From time to time, third parties assert against us and our customers and distributors their patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other IP rights to technologies that are important to our business.Many of our customer agreements, and in some cases our asset sale agreements, and/or the laws of certain jurisdictions may require us to indemnify our customers or purchasers for third-party IP infringement claims, including costs to defend those claims, and payment of damages in the case of adverse rulings. However, our contract manufacturers and suppliers may or may not be required to indemnify us should we or our customers be subject to such third-party claims. Claims of this sort could also harm our relationships with our customers and might deter future customers from doing business with us. We do not know whether we will prevail in such proceedings, given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in IP litigation. If any pending or future proceedings result in an adverse outcome, we could be required to:•cease the manufacture, use or sale of the infringing products, processes or technology and/or make changes to our processes or products;•pay substantial damages for past, present and future use of the infringing technology;•expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology;•license technology from the third-party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all;•enter into cross-licenses with our competitors, which could weaken our overall IP portfolio and our ability to compete in particular product categories;•indemnify our customers or distributors and/or recall, or accept the return of, infringing products;•pay substantial damages to our direct or end customers to discontinue use or replace infringing technology with non-infringing technology; or•relinquish IP rights associated with one or more of our patent claims, if such claims are held invalid or otherwise unenforceable.Any of the foregoing results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.In addition, we may be obligated to indemnify our current or former directors or employees, or former directors or employees of companies that we have acquired, in connection with litigation or regulatory investigations. These liabilities could be substantial and may include, among other things, the cost of defending lawsuits against these individuals, as well as stockholder derivative suits; the cost of government, law enforcement or regulatory investigations; civil or criminal fines and penalties; legal and other expenses; and expenses associated with the remedial measure, if any, which may be imposed.18Table of ContentsOur operating results are subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations.Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations may occ