BUSINESSOverviewBroadcom Inc., or Broadcom, is the successor to Broadcom Limited, a company organized under the laws of the Republic of Singapore, or Broadcom-Singapore, as a result of our redomiciliation to the United States on April 4, 2018. We are a global technology leader that designs, develops and supplies a broad range of semiconductor and infrastructure software solutions. Our over 50-year history of innovation dates back to our diverse origins from Hewlett-Packard Company, AT&T, LSI Corporation, or LSI, Broadcom Corporation, or BRCM, Brocade Communications Systems LLC, or Brocade, and CA, Inc., or CA. Over the years, we have assembled a large team of semiconductor and software design engineers around the world. We maintain design, product and software development engineering resources at locations in the U.S., Asia, Europe and Israel, providing us with engineering expertise worldwide. We strategically focus our research and development resources to address niche opportunities in our target markets and leverage our extensive portfolio of U.S. and other patents and other intellectual property, or IP, to integrate multiple technologies and create system-on-chip, or SoC, component and software solutions that target growth opportunities. We design products and software that deliver high-performance and provide mission-critical functionality.We develop semiconductor devices with a focus on complex digital and mixed signal complementary metal oxide semiconductor, or CMOS, based devices and analog III-V based products. We have a history of innovation in the semiconductor industry and offer thousands of products that are used in end products such as enterprise and data center networking, home connectivity, set-top boxes, broadband access, telecommunication equipment, smartphones and base stations, data center servers and storage systems, factory automation, power generation and alternative energy systems, and electronic displays. We differentiate ourselves through our high performance design and integration capabilities and focus on developing products for target markets where we believe we can earn attractive margins. Semiconductors are made by imprinting a network of electronic components onto a semiconductor wafer. These devices are designed to perform various functions such as processing, amplifying and selectively filtering electronic signals, controlling electronic system functions and processing, and transmitting and storing data. Our digital and mixed signal products are based on silicon wafers with CMOS transistors offering fast switching speeds and low power consumption, which are both critical design factors for the markets we serve. We also offer analog products, which are based on III-V semiconductor materials that have higher electrical conductivity than silicon, and thus tend to have better performance characteristics in radio frequency, or RF, and optoelectronic applications. III-V refers to elements from the 3rd and 5th groups in the periodic table of chemical elements. Examples of these materials used in our products are gallium arsenide, or GaAs, gallium nitride, and indium phosphide, or InP. We also offer mission critical fibre channel storage area networking, or FC SAN, products and related software that we acquired with Brocade in the form of modules, switches and subsystems incorporating multiple semiconductor products.Original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, or their contract manufacturers, and distributors typically account for the substantial majority of our semiconductor sales. We have established strong relationships with leading OEM customers across multiple target markets. Many of our major customer relationships have been in place for many years and have often been built as a result of years of collaborative product development. This has enabled us to build our IP portfolio and develop critical expertise regarding our customers’ requirements, including substantial system level knowledge. This collaboration has provided us with key insights into our customers' businesses and has enabled us to be more efficient and productive and to better serve our target markets and customers. We have a direct sales force focused on supporting large OEMs. We also distribute a substantial portion of our products through our broad distribution network, and a significant amount of these sales are to large global electronic components distributors.We focus on maintaining an efficient global supply chain and a variable, low-cost operating model. Accordingly, we outsource a majority of our manufacturing operations, utilizing third-party foundry and assembly and test capabilities, as well as some of our corporate infrastructure functions. We focus our internal fabrication capacity and capital expenditures on products utilizing our innovative and proprietary processes, to protect our IP and to accelerate time to market of our products, while outsourcing commodity processes such as standard CMOS. We also have a long history of operating in Asia, where approximately 38% of our employees are located and where we manufacture and source the majority of our products and materials. Our presence in Asia places us in close proximity to many of our customers’ manufacturing facilities and at the center of worldwide electronics manufacturing.In addition, the software solutions we acquired with CA enable customers to plan, develop, automate, manage and secure applications across mainframe, distributed, mobile and cloud platforms. Many of the largest companies in the world, including most of the Fortune 500 and many government agencies, rely on CA software to help manage and secure their on-premise and hybrid cloud environments. Our portfolio of mainframe and enterprise software solutions enables customers to leverage the benefits of agility, automation, insights and security in managing business processes and technology investments.2Table of ContentsRecent DevelopmentsAcquisition of CA, Inc.On November 5, 2018, we acquired CA for approximately $18.8 billion in cash, in exchange for all shares of CA common stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the closing, and assumed $2.25 billion of outstanding unsecured bonds, or the CA Merger. In addition, we assumed all unvested CA stock options, outstanding restricted stock awards, restricted stock units and performance stock units held by continuing employees. All vested in-the-money CA stock options and director stock units were cashed out upon the completion of the CA Merger. We financed the CA Merger with $18 billion in new term loans, as well as cash on hand of the combined companies.CA was a leading provider of information technology, or IT, management software and solutions. We acquired CA to enhance our infrastructure software capabilities to include mission critical mainframe and enterprise software solutions. The completion of the CA Merger is a key step in strategically developing our business from being predominately a semiconductor solutions provider to being a broad-based infrastructure technology provider focused on mission critical technology. As part of this development, we plan to change the CA business strategy to focus on renewing contracts for mission critical software with existing core, mainframe-centric clients, and expanding the adoption of other existing CA enterprise software offerings with these clients. We also intend to change CA’s enterprise software contracting model for core customers from a perpetual per seat license arrangement to an enterprise-wide license model. These contracts will provide for termination thereof by our customers at any time for any reason. As a result, we will recognize revenue from these contracts ratably over time.The mainframe software solutions we acquired include solutions for the IBM Z® mainframe platform, which runs many of our largest customers’ mission critical business applications. These software products help customers improve economics by increasing throughput and lowering cost per transaction, increasing business agility through DevOps tooling and processes, increasing reliability and availability of operations through machine intelligence and automation solutions, and protecting enterprise data with security and compliance.In addition, we acquired enterprise software solutions that enable large global organizations to transform to digital businesses by providing an end-to-end digital infrastructure management platform that delivers speed, agility and the ability to optimize for risk across multi-cloud hybrid environments and workloads. More specifically, these products offer unique solutions that help with application development, testing and deployment, operations and automation, and securing users and access to IT infrastructure and applications.In connection with the CA Merger, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell Veracode, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of CA and provider of application security testing solutions, to Thoma Bravo, LLC for an aggregate purchase price of $950 million, subject to customary closing conditions.Redomiciliation to the United States from SingaporeAfter the close of market trading on April 4, 2018, Broadcom and Broadcom-Singapore completed a statutory scheme of arrangement under Singapore law pursuant to which all Broadcom-Singapore outstanding ordinary shares were exchanged on a one-for-one basis for newly issued shares of Broadcom common stock and Broadcom-Singapore became an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Broadcom, or the Redomiciliation Transaction.In conjunction with the Redomiciliation Transaction, all outstanding exchangeable limited partnership units of Broadcom Cayman L.P., or the Partnership, a subsidiary of Broadcom-Singapore, were mandatorily exchanged on a one-for-one basis for newly issued shares of Broadcom common stock. As a result, all the limited partners became common stockholders of Broadcom and Broadcom-Singapore redeemed all related outstanding special preference shares. Consequently, the limited partners no longer held a noncontrolling interest in the Partnership and we subsequently deregistered the Partnership. Acquisition of BrocadeOn November 17, 2017, we acquired Brocade for approximately $5.3 billion in cash and paid $701 million to retire Brocade’s term loan, or the Brocade Merger. Brocade was a leading supplier of networking hardware, software and services, including FC SAN solutions and Internet Protocol Networking, or IP Networking, solutions. In connection with the Brocade Merger, we incurred $4.0 billion of indebtedness.Following the Brocade Merger, on December 1, 2017, we sold Brocade’s IP Networking business, including the Ruckus Wireless and ICX Switch businesses, to ARRIS International plc for cash consideration of $800 million, before contractual working capital adjustments.Segment ReportingThrough our fiscal year ended November 4, 2018, or fiscal year 2018, we had four reportable segments: wired infrastructure, wireless communications, enterprise storage, and industrial & other. Beginning in the fiscal year ending November 3, 2019, or fiscal year 2019, as a result of CA Merger that closed on November 5, 2018, the first day of our fiscal 3Table of Contentsyear 2019, we will have three reportable segments: semiconductor solutions, infrastructure software and IP licensing. Our semiconductor solutions segment will include all our product lines discussed below under “Products and Markets”, except for those related to our FC SAN business that we acquired with Brocade. Our infrastructure software segment will include our FC SAN business and the CA mainframe and enterprise software solutions. All discussions and information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K regarding our business and financial results relate solely to our operations prior to the CA Merger, unless otherwise indicated.Products and MarketsOur product portfolio ranges from discrete devices to complex sub-systems that include multiple device types and may also incorporate firmware for interfacing between analog and digital systems. In some cases, our products include mechanical hardware that interfaces with optoelectronic or capacitive sensors. We focus on markets that require high quality and the technology leadership and integrated performance characteristic of our products. For fiscal year 2018, net revenue included contributions from Brocade commencing on November 17, 2017, which are primarily included in the enterprise storage segment. For the fiscal year ended October 30, 2016, or fiscal year 2016, net revenue included contributions from BRCM commencing on February 1, 2016, which are included in the wired infrastructure and wireless communications segments.See discussion in the “Results of Operations” section included in Part II, 