 The conversation about climate change has  been around for awhile. And so you think about what you could say in response to this. Unmoored is a fantastical journey through  mixed reality, into what it would be like  if New York City, as predicted by climate  scientists, were 26 feet under water. I think one of the most important  motivations as an artist, is to extract  the question that is buried within  the answer. What could create that profound question? The only way it could happen is maybe through something called mixed reality. Each day hundreds of thousands of people pass through Times Square. You’re surrounded by huge digital  LED lit billboards. How do you augment and add another layer or a deeper layer within that. It’s a project that imaginatively gives the viewer, the participant a real immersion in living in a subterranean  world where boats are clanking above your  head, plankton is floating. It’s an accompaniment to a sculpture  called Wake which is a hybrid between a  beached whale, the skeleton of a beached  whale and a sunken ship. I think the concept of Unmoored began  around 2016. I thought about something in terms of something physically floating in the air. So you come to collaborations by clearly  understanding your limitations. To have a vision like this that’s being  animated in my mind or my mind’s eye. I have to find someone that knows how to do this. Nautical vessels in the air requires  another kind of imagination. Using mixed reality to provide a portal  to something I can’t even imagine. A social scientist was describing how our  devices had this unusual run in our lives  and how it has been shown  to be removing empathy Then we have to explore how the very thing that takes it from us, can be  employed to serve it It’s not art for art’s sake, it’s art to  catalyse awareness and so I think  Unmoored is an amazing example of this catalytic call to action through an  amazingly inventive use of the most  contemporary tools available to an artist. In our world that is so rapidly making  things simplified for digestion,  immediate digestion, Maybe we have to do something that is  powerful enough, that it would stay in  the mind and say “I really want to  understand what’s going on here”. This is where you bring surrealism into  life so it can actually interact with  realism. So, here we go. 