 Hi everybody. I've noticed that for a lot of the WMR, the Windows Mixed Reality headsets, I saw a lot of users complaining that the headset goes black and that you still have tracking on your screen when you're looking at it on the monitor and so forth so the head of the headset is tracking but inside the headset the view is completely black and I had the same issue the for short little while and couldn't find an answer online. Iit seemed to be happening with every single brand which led me to check into a few more things so I'm going to show you a quick little solution that I found and hopefully it'll work for some of you. So what I've done is go inside the "Mixed Reality Portal", and at the bottom you've got your three little dots for "See More". Click that go to "Settings" (this is for the Windows operating system by the way) Go there and what you want to do is go to "Headset Display". Click that, and as you'll see I've got it on the Very High (Beta) setting, which is fine, and we want to go down to "Experience Options" make changes the windows mixed reality experience on this PC advanced. Click "Change" and that will open up a new section. Now here's where I actually found the solution. Originally I had it on 90 Hertz, which my system handles no problem, but then after a couple days it's started happening with a black screen and then happened repeatedly after like five ten minutes sort of thing -- so then I tried switching to "Automatic" and naturally, since my system handles 90 Hertz, the same issues started happening. So I decided well let's try the 60 Hertz. I didn't really notice a huge degradation in the image, but when as soon as I switched it manually to 60 Hertz (you don't want to it set for Automatic) Set it manually to 60 Hertz and click "Save" and then you can exit. Once I did that I haven't had a single problem and I've been running it daily for quite a few hours every single day and I haven't had a single problem since then. So give that a shot, and see if that helps and hopefully that will solve it regardless of what brand you have for your WMR or Windows Mixed Reality headset. Let me know if it works for you Happy VR Everyone! 