 ZF Transmissions is a worldwide builder of high-end transmissions for luxury and industrial vehicles.  We want to be the technology leader for automotive support, autonomous driving. If I want that I can not only have the best product, I also have to have the best processes and I have to have the best technology to support our processes.  The passion is about bringing technology that adds value. And not just value to the business process, but value to the people. Because without the people out there on the shop floor, we're nothing.  I'm Matthias Stuetz. I try to solve problems that the machines have that they have less downtime, that we have a higher technical availability. Because if the machines are not running we're not producing parts, so we don't make money.  I'm Lee Peden. I'm a planning engineer at ZF TG. I receive layouts for new equipment to come into the plant and make adjustments and then place those pieces of equipment in the plant drawing. A lot of times I have to take screenshots at specific angles so that I can get exactly what they want to see and I have to make adjustments and really have to fill in the blanks with an explanation. And I have a difficult time trying to produce that with the tools that I have.  Ninety nine percent of our equipment comes from Germany and Switzerland. Either they can help us over the phone or they have to fly in. So it could be a day, it could be five days.  The company that moves the fastest with the most innovative technology is the one who's going to come out on top.  Speaking to someone who has the same machine in Germany and has 10 more years of experience with it, you can figure out problems way more faster.  I saw items that I've spent hours on building come into a real life environment and I was able to manipulate those and change those to reflect the environment that they're in. That was a great planning tool.  For me, it's a sheer productivity improvement. That we bring the product out to the customer in time and the quality and in the cost we need.  When I can do what I love the most and technology helps me with that, I don't feel like I'm wasting my time. At the end it benefits myself because I'm happier and if I'm happier I can work better.  I'm a person of very few words. I communicate best through my creative endeavors. So that's the tool that I prefer to use and hopefully it becomes one of the best tools that I have. 