 (upbeat music) - Hey what's up everybody, welcome back to What's New in EDU live, I'm Toney Jackson a 4th grade teacher from Hackensack, New Jersey and I'm gonna be giving you the scoop on new products and features live from here at ISTE. - I'm sorry, Toney Jackson? - Yes sir. - A selfie. - Let's go. - Thank you man. - Absolutely. So these past few days have really flown by and my kids are gonna flip when they see all that I've learned. You get it? Flip, Flipgrid, okay anyway we've been learning so much all week and we've only scratched the surface. Surface, okay we're gonna kick it off now so let's go to Shindy. - Thanks Tony. I'm Shindy and this is Javier. We both work for the Windows Education Devices Team. We couldn't be more delighted to be here to tell you about the Windows 10 S mode. We have devices that start at $189 and we have touch and ink devices starting at $279. When we talked to schools like Marshall Public Schools in Marshall, Minnesota they tell us the importance of being able to deliver a cloud based experience, the importance of security and that these devices are totally rugged. Do you know how hard middle schoolers can be on their devices? We'll show you. For instance, are you serious it's spill proof?! I didn't even know that! Oh my goodness! Wow but how bout when they pack them in their backpacks and then just happen to come home from school and... No! Drop them? Outrageous! Is this thing still gonna work Javier? - Indeed it is! - Indeed it is, alright thanks Toney. - Folks I've been documenting my time here at ISTE and we're gonna do something awesome with the footage. Melinda here is gonna show you how to make that happen while I grab some more shots. - Thanks Toney. The Photos app includes a built in video editor, which makes it super easy for students to create narratives, project reflections, take the place of a traditional lab report, anything they're looking to do in a familiar medium. So Toney captured a bunch of photos and video clips as he's been out on the floor and I'm helping him make this video that will include some of his spoken word. So we can drag these down to the storyboard to construct that narrative and resize to remove those black bars and zoom in on him and the action. One of the big thing that we heard from educators was that students wanted to be able to have both music and narration. So we've added the ability to add narration. We'll import the audio that Toney recorded earlier, his ISTE reflections and add that to our project. You can see that comes in along our timeline and we can slide it anywhere we want to get it lined up with the action, or even go ahead and trim it if students have a couple " um's" and "ah's" that they want to cut off. We'll say done and see how that sounds. (loud music) - Sounds like our music is overpowering Toney's spoken word. So we'll go in an adjust the levels here. We can turn the music down here in our volume mixer at a more reasonable level. Once you've got your project complete coming for back to school is the ability to add that project to the cloud so that they can work on their video projects on their PC at school or back at home. Let's see how we did. - [Toney] This atmosphere is electric. What happens here is the methods for teaching meet the resources we need and the teachers have poured in to find them in workshop sessions, keynotes, we hope help us take each element and combine them. Thanks Melinda. What an engaging way to learn. And speaking of engagement, I hear there's some really exciting things happening in this futuristic world we're living in. Mike what can you tell us? - Thanks Toney. This is Mike Tholfsen from Microsoft Education and here at ISTE we're in the Windows Makes Reality portion of our booth. So big announcement today, the Limitless Libraries Grant was started to enrich the learning experience at public schools and libraries. We believe with digital technology like Mixed Reality Headsets we can engage students, help with their tension and improve learning outcomes. Now this grant is open for the first time recipients and they're gonna be selected at the end of this summer. The recipients get Windows Mixed Reality Headsets, they get a computer and they get staff and administration training and PD. So this first grant will be available for six thru twelve grades as well as libraries. And you can sign up today at Now as a bonus we've just announced we've got the Immersive Reader right here as prototype in the Mixed Reality Headset. So why Immersive Reader in the VR? So think about those kids that you might pull out for twenty minutes for reading specialists, to librarians, to really give them a little bit of extra focus. So now the Immersive Reader fully embedded in VR gives quite a powerful experience that we believe can help improve student outcomes. We're gonna be prototyping more this summer and into the fall so we really would love your feedback. So thanks Toney! - That's great, thanks Mike. Now there has been a lot to be excited about here in ITSE but my biggest takeaway so far has been the energy of the educators and their excitement about using all of this connectivity to genuinely connect with their students and to help their students connect globally in order to put all of this learning into action. Now if you didn't see the previous live episode, there's a link in the description below. So check that out as well. Stick with me, we have one more day here at ISTE. Make sure to tune in live on Facebook at 5:00 p.m. Central Time. That's all we have for you now so go learn something new. Peace. - See you next time! 