 - Let me welcome everyone in. Now, if you're ready to begin, me too. It's time to learn about what's new in EDU. - G'day everyone, welcome to another edition of What's New in EDU. If you want to learn all about new updates and features from Microsoft Education, then you're in the right spot. Today we have big news. (upbeat rock music) Sitting in your classrooms right now are the world's future creators, tomorrow's innovators, and technology empowers each of these students to create the world of tomorrow. We work closely with educators from around the world to help learn how we can better transform your classroom, and we've listened to you. We've made some big changes to Microsoft 365 Education to make it the single most effective and affordable platform for schools. Last year, we had a ton of announcements that helped to ignite students' innate curiosity and creativity. And today, inspired by educators around the world, we are happy to announce an array of new products and software arriving just in time for the new school year. Let's start with Windows PCs for the classroom. - Thanks, Mark. We're super excited to announce new Windows 10 PCs for the classroom starting at just $189, with none of the compromises of Chromebooks. What's so cool about these new PCs? First of all, they're all designed for education. That means they've been ruggedized, they have spill-resistant keyboards, they have all day battery life, and two by two WiFi, which basically means you'll have faster network connections. Second, they all run Windows 10, and they're available with Windows 10S, and that means kids get the opportunity to run Office, Minecraft, Paint 3D, our new Photos app with the movie editor, and more. Finally, with Intune for Education, schools can set up a classroom with PCs with apps, and settings, and everything, in less than an hour, and they can save up to 70% versus Google Chrome Management Console. If your school is currently using Chromebooks, these new PCs are a big deal. You can finally get a fully featured Windows 10 PC for about the same cost and do so much more. We're excited to give schools so much value and unlock student creativity. - Thanks, Jay. Tools like these empower STEM curriculum like never before, and it's estimated that by 2020, there will be 1.4 million computer science related jobs available, and only 400,000 computer science graduates with the skills to apply for these jobs. But if we can find the right curriculum to help students stay engaged in STEM subjects, we can start to solve that problem. So here, check it out. We have some new curriculum coming from mixed reality, hacking STEM, and Minecraft Education Edition. Students can create and explore lessons like never before, and now, even learn to code. - [All] We love Minecraft! - Now that Minecraft Education Edition just passed 2 million licenses in 115 countries, we're delighted to offer you even more value over time, starting with a brand new chemistry update coming in early February, which will be free to all licensed users. - Minecraft is a fun way to learn, and with this new chemistry mod, I think Ms. Pilsner, our teacher, could teach us a lot of new stuff about chemistry and still make it really fun. - People think it's a game and all, but there's some parts and elements in it that are actually realistic. - There's a compound creator, where you can make different elements, and then you can turn those elements into medicines and gasses. - Just on paper, you wouldn't be able to do things like combine different elements, but in Minecraft you can, and it's really helpful to see the outcomes. - We learned about all these different elements in five minutes that we probably couldn't have memorized in an hour. - It's really cool. - Using this chemistry mod is a really fun way to learn. - Minecraft is just one example of 3D and spatial thinking in the classroom. We'll also be expanding our mixed reality curriculum offerings through partnerships with PBS, NASA, and Pearson's. Annie and Dan sat down to talk about what's new with AR and VR. - You work on our augmented reality, virtual reality team. What role do you think that technology plays in helping today's students learn? - I see a lot it's about pedagogy over technology, so how does the technology help support existing pedagogy, and you know, one of the things I talk about is the Edgar-Dale Cone of Learning, which basically states that you retain 10% of what you're told or what you hear, but 90% of what you hear, see, say, and do. And for me, that is where the magic of these devices come. - How low cost are they for schools? - I'm super excited about how accessible we're making these devices for schools. We've got a range of headsets in the immersive line, with the least expensive starting at $299. A lot of times we'll get the question of, like, "How do I get started?" And the answer is, you can really get started with two or three of these devices in a library, or a maker space, or PC lab. And these experiences are all free to you to start using in your classrooms right away. - Not only are the experiences free, we also have new Holo Lens academic pricing. We'll be sharing more on this news all this week on upcoming What's New in EDU episodes. We're also excited to share that, together with LEGO Education, we will be offering a new hacking STEM lesson plan for free online to educators around the world. Karon sat down with a teacher to chat about it. The new lesson gives teachers the option to use LEGOs or cardboard to-- - Put it in the digital world. So, we're going to represent our island in Excel by using the tools that are in front of us. - Now, let's talk about what Office 365 has in store. - Hey everyone, today we're talking about three big updates for Office in Education. Number one: inclusive classrooms. We're bringing dictation to all of the Office apps, and it's gonna be built in for any student to use. We're also taking learning tools and bringing it to the Mac version of Word, iPhone, the Outlook Desktop, and also OneNote on the iPad. Number two: teens and education. You're gonna have the ability to join a class with a class code. You're also gonna have the ability to reuse a class and get real time translation for those non-native speakers in your classroom. Three: OneNote. The number one request from teachers has been the ability to lock a page in a class and mark it as read only. We're bringing that soon. We also have assignment and grade integration with Capita Sims and PowerSchool, and also Desmos math calculators will go right on the page for interacting. And bonus, last but not least, four new sticker packs, including a cockatoo who's playing a keytar! Thanks, Mark. - Now, we have so much more that we'll be covering all week, from partner news, to Office 365 Education news, to mixed reality, Minecraft Education Edition, and more. Make sure to tune in live on Facebook at 4:00pm London time every day. Thank you so much for joining us today on What's New in EDU. - [Children] See you next time! 