BUSINESSCompany OverviewAnalog Devices, Inc. (we, Analog Devices or the Company) is a leading global high-performance analog technology company. Our products and technologies intelligently bridge the physical and digital domains through sensing, measuring, powering, connecting and interpreting.  We design, manufacture and market a broad portfolio of solutions that leverage high-performance analog, mixed-signal and digital signal processing technology, including integrated circuits (ICs), algorithms, software, and subsystems. Since our inception in 1965, we have focused on solving our customers’ toughest signal processing engineering challenges and playing a fundamental role in converting, conditioning, and processing real-world phenomena such as temperature, pressure, sound, light, speed, and motion into electrical signals to be used in a wide array of electronic devices. We combine sensors, data converters, amplifiers and linear products, radio frequency (RF) ICs, power management products, and signal processing products into technology platforms that meet specific customer and market needs, leveraging our engineering investment across a broad base of markets and customers. As new generations of applications evolve, such as autonomous vehicles and the Internet of Things, new needs for Analog Devices’ high-performance analog signal processing and digital signal processing (DSP) products and technologies are emerging.We focus on key strategic markets where our signal processing technology is often a critical differentiator in our customers’ products; in particular, the industrial, automotive, consumer and communications markets. Used by more than 125,000 customers worldwide, our products are embedded inside many different types of electronic equipment including:• Industrial process control systems • Medical imaging equipment• Factory process automation systems • Patient vital signs monitoring devices• Instrumentation and measurement systems • Wireless infrastructure equipment• Energy management systems • Networking equipment• Aerospace and defense electronics • Optical systems• Automobiles • Portable consumer devicesWe were incorporated in Massachusetts in 1965. Our headquarters are near Boston, in Norwood, Massachusetts. In addition, we have manufacturing facilities in the United States, Ireland, and Southeast Asia.  We have more than 50 design, development, field application engineering, sales, and manufacturing centers worldwide. Our common stock is listed on The Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol ADI and is included in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.Acquisition of Linear Technology CorporationOn March 10, 2017 (Acquisition Date), we completed the acquisition of Linear Technology Corporation (Linear), a designer, manufacturer and marketer of high performance analog integrated circuits. The total consideration paid to acquire Linear was approximately $15.8 billion, consisting of $11.1 billion in cash financed through existing cash on hand, net proceeds from bridge and term loan facilities and proceeds received from the issuance of senior unsecured notes, $4.6 billion from the issuance of our common stock and $0.1 billion of consideration related to the replacement of outstanding equity awards held by Linear employees. The acquisition of Linear is referred to as the Acquisition.Available InformationWe maintain a website with the address www.analog.com. We are not including the information contained on our website as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make available free of charge through our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K (including exhibits), and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We also make available on our website our by-laws, corporate governance guidelines, the charters for our audit committee, compensation committee, and nominating and corporate governance committee, our equity award granting policies, our code of business conduct and ethics which applies to our directors, officers and employees, and our related person transaction policy, and such information is available in print and free of charge to any shareholder of Analog Devices who requests it. In addition, we intend to disclose on our website any amendments to, or waivers from, our code of business conduct and ethics that are required to be publicly disclosed pursuant to rules of the SEC or Nasdaq.2Industry BackgroundSemiconductor components are the electronic building blocks used in electronic systems and equipment. These components are classified as either discrete devices, such as individual transistors, or ICs, in which a number of transistors and other elements are combined to form a more complicated electronic circuit. ICs may be divided into two general categories, digital and analog. Digital circuits, such as memory devices and microprocessors, generally process on-off electrical signals, represented by binary digits, “1” and “0”. In contrast, analog ICs monitor, condition, amplify or transform continuous analog signals associated with physical properties, such as temperature, pressure, weight, light, sound or motion, and play an important role in bridging between real world phenomena and a variety of electronic systems. Analog ICs also provide voltage regulation and power control to electronic systems.Principal ProductsWe design, manufacture and market a broad line of high-performance ICs that incorporate analog, mixed-signal and digital signal processing technologies. Our ICs are designed to address a wide range of real-world signal processing applications. We sell our ICs to tens of thousands of customers worldwide, many of whom use products spanning our core technologies in a wide range of applications. Our IC product portfolio includes both general-purpose products used by a broad range of customers and applications, as well as application-specific products designed for specific clusters of customers in key target markets. By using readily available, high-performance, general-purpose products in their systems, our customers can reduce the time they need to bring new products to market. Given the high cost of developing more customized ICs, our standard products often provide a cost-effective solution for many low to medium volume applications. We also focus on working with leading customers to design application-specific solutions. We begin with our existing core technologies, which leverage our data conversion, amplification, RF and microwave, microelectromechanical systems (MEMS), power management and DSP capabilities, and devise a solution to more closely meet the needs of a specific customer or group of customers. Because we have already developed the core technology platform for our general-purpose products, we can create application-specific solutions quickly.We produce and market a broad range of ICs and operate in one reportable segment based on the aggregation of eight operating segments. The ICs sold by each of our operating segments are manufactured using similar semiconductor manufacturing processes and raw materials in either our own production facilities or by third-party wafer fabricators using proprietary processes.  Our ICs are sold to customers globally through a direct sales force, third-party distributors, independent sales representatives and via our website. Our technology offerings are aligned with the predominant markets served in order to facilitate decision making throughout our organization. Our ten highest revenue products, in the aggregate, accounted for approximately 14% of our revenue for our fiscal year ended October 28, 2017 (fiscal 2017). Analog ProductsOur analog and mixed signal IC technology has been the foundation of our business for over five decades, and we are one of the world’s largest suppliers of high-performance analog ICs. Our analog signal processing ICs are primarily high-performance devices, offering higher dynamic range, greater bandwidth, and other enhanced features. We believe that the principal advantages these products have as compared to competitors’ products include higher accuracy, higher speed, lower cost per function, smaller size, lower power consumption and fewer components, resulting in improved performance and reliability. Our product portfolio includes several thousand analog ICs, any one of which can have as many as several hundred customers. Our analog ICs typically have long product life cycles. Our analog IC customers include original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and customers who build electronic subsystems for integration into larger systems.Converters — We are a leading supplier of data converter products. Data converters translate real-world analog signals into digital data and also translate digital data into analog signals. Data converters remain our largest and most diverse product family and an area where we are continuously innovating to enable our customers to redefine and differentiate their products. Our converter products combine sampling rates and accuracy with the low noise, power, price and small package size required by industrial, automotive, consumer, and communications electronics.Amplifiers/Radio Frequency — We are also a leading supplier of high-performance amplifiers. Amplifiers are used to condition analog signals. High performance amplifiers emphasize the performance dimensions of speed and precision. Within this product portfolio we provide precision, instrumentation, high speed, intermediate frequency/RF, broadband, and other amplifiers. We also offer an extensive portfolio of precision voltage references that are used in a wide variety of applications. Our analog product line also includes a broad portfolio of high performance RF ICs covering the entire RF signal chain, from industry-leading stand-alone RF function blocks such as phase locked loops, frequency synthesizers, mixers, modulators, demodulators, and power detectors, to highly integrated broadband and short-range single chip transceiver solutions. Our high performance RF ICs support the high performance requirements of cellular infrastructure and a broad range of applications in our target markets.3Power Management & Reference — Power management and reference products, which include functions such as power conversion, driver monitoring, sequencing and energy management, are developed to complement analog signal chain components across core market segments and provide efficient solutions for power management and conversion applications in the automotive, communications, industrial and high-end consumer markets. Our high performance power ICs include powerful densities and software design simulation tools to provide fast and accurate power supply designs. Other Analog — Also within our analog technology portfolio are products that are based on MEMS technology. This technology enables us to build extremely small sensors that incorporate an electromechanical structure and the supporting analog circuitry for conditioning signals obtained from the sensing element. Our MEMS product portfolio includes accelerometers used to sense acceleration, gyroscopes used to sense rotation and inertial measurement units used to sense multiple degrees of freedom combining multiple sensing types along multiple axes. The majority of our current revenue from MEMS products is derived from the automotive end market. In addition to our MEMS products, our other analog product category includes isolators that enable designers to implement isolation in designs without the cost, size, power, performance, and reliability constraints found with optocouplers. Our isolators have been designed into hundreds of applications, such as universal serial bus isolation in patient monitors, where it allows hospitals and physicians to adopt the latest advances in computer technology to supervise patient health and wirelessly transmit medical records. In smart metering applications, our isolators provide reliable electrostatic discharge performance that helps reduce meter tampering. Likewise, in satellites, where any malfunction can be catastrophic, our isolators help protect the power system while enabling designers to achieve small form factors.Digital Signal Processing ProductsDigital Signal Processing products (DSPs) complete our product portfolio. DSPs are optimized for high-speed numeric calculations, which are essential for instantaneous, or real-time, processing of digital data generated, in most cases, from analog to digital signal conversion. Our DSPs are designed to be fully programmable and to efficiently execute specialized software programs, or algorithms, associated with processing digitized real-time, real-world data. Programmable DSPs are designed to provide the flexibility to modify the device’s function quickly and inexpensively using software. Our general-purpose DSP IC customers typically write their own algorithms using software development tools provided by us and third-party suppliers. Our DSPs are designed in families of products that share common architectures and therefore can execute the same software across a range of products. We support these products with easy-to-use development tools, which are designed to reduce our customers’ product development costs and time-to-market. Our customers use our products to solve a wide range of signal processing challenges across our core market and segment focus areas within the industrial, automotive, consumer and communications end markets. As an integrated part of our customers' signal chain, there are typically many other Analog Devices products connected to our processors, including converters, audio and video codecs and power management solutions.Markets and ApplicationsThe breakdown of our fiscal 2017 revenue by end market is set out in the table below.  Percent of  Fiscal 2017End Market RevenueIndustrial 46%Automotive 15%Consumer 21%Communications 18%The following describes some of the characteristics of, and customer products within, our major end markets:Industrial — Our industrial market includes the following sectors:Industrial and Instrumentation — Our industrial automation applications generally require ICs that offer performance greater than that available from commodity-level ICs but generally do not have production volumes that warrant custom ICs. There is a trend towards development of products focused on particular sub-applications, which incorporate combinations of analog, mixed-signal, and DSP ICs to achieve the necessary functionality. Our instrumentation customers differentiate themselves by using the highest performance analog and mixed-signal ICs available. Our industrial and instrumentation market includes applications such as:• Process control systems • Oscilloscopes• Connected motion and robotics • Lab, chemical, and environmental analyzers• Environmental control systems • Weigh scales4Defense/Aerospace — The defense, commercial avionics and space markets all require high-performance ICs that meet rigorous environmental and reliability specifications. Many of our analog ICs can be supplied in versions that meet these standards. In addition, many products can be supplied to meet the standards required for broadcast satellites and other commercial space applications. Most of our products sold in this market are specially tested versions of products derived from our standard product offering. As end systems are becoming more complex many of our customers in this market also look for sub-systems. We supply sub-systems to many of these customers. Customer products include:• Navigation systems • Radar systems• Space and satellite communications • Security devices• Communication systems  Energy Management — The desire to improve energy efficiency, conservation, reliability, and cleanliness is driving investments in renewable energy, power transmission and distribution systems, electric meters, and other innovative areas. The common characteristic behind these efforts is the addition of sensing, measurement, and communication technologies to electrical infrastructure. Our offerings include both standard and application-specific products and are used in applications such as:• Utility meters • Wind turbines• Meter communication modules • Solar inverters• Substation relays and automation equipment • Building energy automation/controlHealthcare — The healthcare market is calling for increased access to better and more affordable care. To help achieve this, we are collaborating with customers and partners on innovative solutions that are designed to achieve better outcomes for patients and physicians at reduced costs for all. Our offerings include both standard and application-specific products and are used in applications such as:• Ultrasound systems • Anesthesia equipment• X-Ray equipment (CT and DR) • Lab diagnostic equipment• Image guided therapy • Surgical tools and instruments• Multi-parameter vital signs monitors • Blood analyzers• Disease management, e.g. hypertension and diabetes • Point-of-care diagnosticsAutomotive — We develop differentiated high performance signal processing solutions that enable sophisticated automotive systems to be greener, safer and smarter. Through collaboration with manufacturers worldwide, we have achieved significant market share through a broad portfolio of analog, digital and sensor ICs that increase fuel efficiency, enhance vehicle safety and improve the in-cabin audio/video experience. Specifically, we have developed products used in applications such as:Greener Safer Smarter• Hybrid electric / electric vehicles • Crash sensors in airbag systems • Car audio, voice processing and connectivity• Battery monitoring and management systems • Electronic stability systems • Video processing and connectivity    • Radar advanced driver assistance systems  • Car telematicsConsumer — To address the market demand for state of the art personal and professional entertainment systems and the consumer demand for high quality user interfaces, music, movies and photographs, we have developed analog, digital and mixed-signal solutions that meet the rigorous cost and time-to-market requirements of the consumer electronics market. The emergence of high-performance, feature-rich consumer products has created a market for our high-performance ICs with a high level of specific functionality that enables best in class user experience. These products include:• Portable devices (smart phones, tablets and wearable devices) for media and vital signs motoring applications • Prosumer audio/video equipment5Communications — The development of broadband, wireless and internet infrastructures around the world has created an important market for our communications products. Communications technology involves the processing of signals that are converted from analog to digital and digital to analog form during the process of transmitting and receiving data. The need for higher speed and reduced power consumption, coupled with more reliable, bandwidth-efficient communications, creates demand for our products, which are used in the full spectrum of signal processing for internet protocol, video streaming, voice communication and machine-type communications. In wireless and broadband communication applications, our products are incorporated into:• Cellular basestation equipment • Optical networking equipment for data center and service providers• Microwave backhaul systems • Satellite and terrestrial broadband access equipmentSee Note 4, Industry, Segment and Geographic Information, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information about our products by end market.Research and DevelopmentOur markets are characterized by rapid technological changes and advances. Accordingly, we make substantial investments in the design and development of new products and manufacturing processes, and the improvement of existing products and manufacturing processes. We spent approximately $969 million during fiscal 2017 on the design, development and improvement of new and existing products and manufacturing processes, compared to approximately $654 million during the fiscal year ended October 29, 2016 (fiscal 2016) and approximately $637 million during the fiscal year ended October 31, 2015 (fiscal 2015).Our research and development strategy focuses on building technical leadership in core technology platforms, which include converters, amplifiers, RF and microwave, power management, MEMS, and DSP. In support of our research and development activities, we employ thousands of engineers involved in product and manufacturing process development throughout the world.Patents and Other Intellectual Property RightsWe seek to establish and maintain our proprietary rights in our technology and products through the use of patents, copyrights, mask works, trademarks and trade secrets. We have a program to file applications for and obtain patents, copyrights, mask works and trademarks in the United States and in selected foreign countries where we believe filing for such protection is appropriate. We also seek to maintain our trade secrets and confidential information by nondisclosure policies and through the use of appropriate confidentiality agreements. We have obtained a substantial number of patents and trademarks in the United States and in other countries. As of October 28, 2017, we held approximately 3,255 U.S. patents and approximately 801 non-provisional pending U.S. patent applications with expiration dates ranging from 2017 through 2037. There can be no assurance, however, that the rights obtained can be successfully enforced against infringing products in every jurisdiction. While our patents, copyrights, mask works, trademarks and trade secrets provide some advantage and protection, we believe our competitive position and future success is largely determined by such factors as the system and application knowledge, innovative skills, technological expertise and management ability and experience of our personnel; the range and success of new products being developed by us; our market brand recognition and ongoing marketing efforts; and customer service and technical support. It is generally our policy to seek patent protection for significant inventions that may be patented, though we may elect, in certain cases, not to seek patent protection even for significant inventions, if we determine other protection, such as maintaining the invention as a trade secret, to be more advantageous. We also have trademarks that are used in the conduct of our business to distinguish genuine Analog Devices products and we maintain cooperative advertising programs to promote our brands and identify products containing genuine Analog Devices components.Sales ChannelsWe sell our products globally through a direct sales force, third-party distributors, independent sales representatives and via our website. We have direct sales offices, sales representatives and/or distributors in over 50 countries outside North America.We support our worldwide sales efforts through our website and with extensive promotional programs that include editorial coverage and paid advertising in online and printed trade publications, webinars, social media and communities, promotional and training videos, direct mail programs, technical seminars and participation in trade shows. We publish, share and distribute technical content such as data sheets, application guides and catalogs.  We maintain a staff of field application engineers who aid customers in incorporating our products into their products. In addition, we offer a variety of web-based tools that ease product selection and aid in the design process for our customers.6We derived approximately 53% of our fiscal 2017 revenue from sales made through distributors. These distributors typically maintain an inventory of our products. Some of them also sell products that compete with our products, including those for which we are an alternate source. We defer revenue and the related cost of sales on shipments to U.S. distributors and certain international distributors until the distributors resell the products to their customers. . We make sales to distributors under agreements that allow certain distributors to receive price adjustment credits and to return qualifying products for credit, as determined by us, in order to reduce the amounts of slow-moving, discontinued or obsolete product from their inventory. These agreements limit such returns to a certain percentage of our shipments to that distributor during the prior quarter. In addition, certain distributors are allowed to return unsold products if we terminate the relationship with the distributor. Additional information relating to our sales to distributors is set forth in Note 2n, Revenue Recognition, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Segment Financial Information and Geographic InformationWe operate and track our results in one reportable segment based on the aggregation of eight operating segments.Through subsidiaries and affiliates, we conduct business in numerous countries outside the United States. During fiscal 2017, we derived approximately 61% of our revenue from customers in international markets. Our international business is subject to risks customarily encountered in foreign operations, including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and controls, import and export controls, and other laws, policies and regulations of foreign governments. Although we engage in hedging transactions to reduce our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations, our competitive position may be adversely affected by changes in the exchange rate of the United States dollar against other currencies.Revenue by geographic region, based on the primary location of our customers' design activity for our products, for fiscal 2017 was as follow:  Percent of  Fiscal 2017Geographic Area  RevenueUnited States 39%Rest of North/South America 2%Europe 24%Japan 10%China 16%Rest of Asia 9%For further detail regarding revenue and other financial information about our industry, segment and geographic areas, see our Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 4, Industry, Segment and Geographic Information of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For a discussion of important risk factors that may materially affect us, see the Risk Factors contained in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.CustomersWe have over 125,000 customers worldwide. The Company's largest single end customer, Apple Inc., represented approximately 14%, 12% and 13% of total revenue in fiscal years 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Our customers use hundreds of different types of our products in a wide range of applications spanning the industrial, automotive, consumer and communication markets. Our 20 largest customers accounted for approximately 35% of our fiscal 2017 revenue.SeasonalitySales to customers during our first fiscal quarter may be lower than other quarters due to plant shutdowns at some of our customers during the holiday season. In general, the seasonality for any specific period of time has not had a material impact on our results of operations. In addition, as explained in our risk factors contained in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our revenue is more likely to be influenced on a quarter to quarter basis by cyclicality in the semiconductor industry.Production and Raw MaterialsMonolithic IC components are manufactured in a sequence of semiconductor production steps that include wafer fabrication, wafer testing, cutting the wafer into individual “chips,” or dice, assembly of the dice into packages and electrical testing of the devices in final packaged form. The raw materials used to manufacture these devices include silicon wafers, processing chemicals (including liquefied gases), precious metals and ceramic and plastic used for packaging.7We utilize, develop and employ a wide variety of manufacturing processes, primarily based on bipolar and complementary metal-oxide semiconductor (CMOS) transistors, which are specifically tailored for use in fabricating high-performance analog, DSP and mixed-signal ICs. Devices such as MEMS, iCoupler®isolators and various sensors, are fabricated using specialized processes, which typically use substantially similar equipment as bipolar and CMOS processes.Our IC products are fabricated on proprietary processes at our internal production facilities in Wilmington, Massachusetts,  Milpitas, California, Camas, Washington and Limerick, Ireland and also on a mix of proprietary and non-proprietary processes at third-party wafer fabricators. We currently source approximately 45% of our wafer requirements annually from third-party wafer fabrication foundries, primarily Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC), typically where deep-submicron lithography capabilities and/or large manufacturing capacity is required.We operate an assembly and wafer sort facility in Malaysia, and test facilities in the Philippines and Singapore. We also make extensive use of third-party subcontractors for the assembly and testing of our products.Capital spending was approximately $204 million in fiscal 2017, compared with approximately $127 million in fiscal 2016 and $154 million in fiscal 2015. We expect capital expenditures for the fiscal year ending November 3, 2018 (fiscal 2018) to be in the range of $230 million to $270 million.Our products require a wide variety of components, raw materials and external foundry services, most of which we purchase from third-party suppliers. We have multiple sources for many of the components and materials that we purchase and incorporate into our products. However, a large portion of our external wafer purchases and foundry services are from a limited number of suppliers, primarily TSMC. If TSMC or any of our other key suppliers are unable or unwilling to manufacture and deliver sufficient quantities of components to us, on the time schedule and of the quality that we require, we may be forced to seek to engage additional or replacement suppliers, which could result in significant expenses and disruptions or delays in manufacturing, product development and shipment of product to our customers. Although we have experienced shortages of components, materials and external foundry services from time to time, these items have generally been available to us as needed.BacklogBacklog at the end of fiscal 2017 was approximately $1.2 billion, up from approximately $700 million at the end of fiscal 2016. We define backlog as of a particular date to mean firm orders from a customer or distributor with a requested delivery date within thirteen weeks. Backlog is impacted by the tendency of customers to rely on shorter lead times available from suppliers, including us, in periods of depressed demand. In periods of increased demand, there is a tendency towards longer lead times that has the effect of increasing backlog and, in some instances, we may not have manufacturing capacity sufficient to fulfill all orders. As is customary in the semiconductor industry, we allow most orders to be canceled or deliveries to be delayed by customers without significant penalty. Accordingly, we believe that our backlog at any time should not be used as an indication of our future revenue.We typically do not have long-term sales contracts with our customers. In some of our markets where end-user demand may be particularly volatile and difficult to predict, some customers place orders that require us to manufacture product and have it available for shipment, even though the customer is unwilling to make a binding commitment to purchase all, or even any, of the product. In other instances, we manufacture product based on forecasts of customer demand. As a result, we may incur inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated sales and are subject to the risk of cancellation of orders leading to a sharp reduction of sales and backlog. Further, those orders or forecasts may be for products that meet the customer’s unique requirements so that those canceled orders would, in addition, result in an inventory of unsaleable products, resulting in potential inventory write-offs. As a result of lengthy manufactur