 Hi, I'm Tom Wilson, product manager for DataIQ. A key component of PowerScale is our ability to provide intelligent insights via our DataIQ software. As we enter the data era, massive growth in unstructured data presents opportunities and challenges for every organization. But managing this explosion of data in a way that unlocks value for the business can seem like an insurmountable task. DataIQ can help by providing intelligent insights into your data. These insights come from being able to index and classify your data from a single location. We break DataIQ’s capabilities into three categories. Discover, Analyze, and Act. Let's talk about Discover. DataIQ has the ability to rapidly discover your unstructured data across multiple heterogenous file and object storage platforms. These include Dell Technologies storage platforms like PowerScale, third-party storage systems and platforms in the cloud. Once scanned, you can search across all your file and object storage from a single pane of glass. Analyze. DataIQ lets you gain insights into data characteristics and classify the data with customizable tags. You can then search across all your indexed unstructured data for these tags. DataIQ also has self-service capabilities enabling the business users to analyze and add their own classifications. This empowers the business user who often possesses the most knowledge about the data itself. And now the Act category. With these data insights, you can make more informed decisions and determine how to act on them from within DataIQ. This would include forecasting future needs, automating the next steps in your business workflow, or moving data to the optimal storage platform on-demand. Finally, DataIQ is available for use on PowerScale and other Dell Technologies storage platforms at no additional cost. With these features combined, DataIQ is able to provide valuable intelligent insights into your unstructured data. To learn more, visit the PowerScale page at DellTechnologies.com. 