 When People, Assets, and Processes are out of sync, schedule, quality, and cost performance of a manufacturing plant can suffer. Deloitte’s Smart Factory Fabric offers that synchronization. A connected platform, hosted on Amazon Web services, that provides a global view of plants, processes, and assets for stakeholders across the organization. A shop floor sits on a gold mine of data. After connecting machines on the plant floor, the data can be used to power dynamic dashboards, displaying a view of the health of the factory’s assets. Technicians and plant managers are able to track and see performance in real time, and address issues proactively. The insights can help drive process improvements, increasing throughout by up to 20% and improve first pass quality by 30%. . Smart Factory Fabric is cloud native, scalable, user friendly, and secure by design. It is built on tested, flexible AWS technology that can be implemented today, and helps reduce the complexity of interfacing with your applications, machines, and other infrastructure. Whether its interaction between IT and OT, or implementing a new machine learning model, Smart Factory Fabric offers the platform to take you where you need to go. Deloitte is uniquely suited to implement Smart Factory Fabric solutions, while driving the change management required for adoption and providing insights to stakeholders at every level of the organization. Smart Factory Fabric provides insights for Technicians to maintain factory assets and manage their throughput to keep the plant running at its fullest potential. Plant managers can proactively manage constraints and respond to issues before they arise, increasing on-time delivery by 20%. And decision makers can focus on the strategic direction for the business, instead of solving for problems of the present. . The Smart Factory Fabric solution can grow with your organization, and helps reduce costs by increasing visibility, optimizing production, improving quality, and minimizing unplanned downtime. Smart Factory Fabric provides a global template, flexible enough to onboard multiple facilities. Once fully scaled, it can provide metrics consistently across multiple facets of the organization. Smart Factory Fabric provides an integrated view of operations needed to uncover opportunities for improvement and make decisions across your enterprise. Deloitte’s Smart Factory Fabric, your business, fully in sync. . 