 I think one of the most important decisions you need to make when you're making your own underwear is fabric choice so there are a few key things in making underwear and I think that fabric really needs to have lycra in it of course it does need to stretch but the lycra really gives it a good recovery so here is a pretty inexpensive piece of cotton lycra I got from a local fabric store it's got really good width wise stretch and the recovery is what we call it when it bounces back to its original shape so you know if I'm in the store I'll stretch it out as much as I can and make sure that it bounces back and there's no kind of stretch lines or drag marks left in the fabric so obviously I want it to conform around my body really well but the other part of it is I want it to actually go around my body like around my bottom so not just width ways around the circumference with my body but around my bottom and around my tummy as well so as well as this width way stretch it really really has to have vertical stretch so you're just when you're in the fabric shop and looking or if you're looking through your stash you're gonna look for fabric that's got a good recovery so it comes back to its original shape really easily in both width and vertical stretch. So this is an inexpensive cotton lycra I think I paid $10 a meter for that here's another choice this one's from blackbird fabrics this one is a tencel and organic cotton Jersey and it has 6% spandex so if we just apply that same test so with way stretch good recovery and then that vertical stretch really good recovery. I've made ua pair from this Jersey and it is fantastic it is like wearing nothing because it's so soft and silky it's pretty easy to sew it's just a great fabric. It is more expensive than the cotton lycra that I picked up the other day though. Here's another fabric so this is um something I had in my stash so let's check this one out it's an unknown jersey it's really really soft it's quite sheer which probably wouldn't be my first choice for underwear myself but you do you. So let's apply the test so I want that width way stretch and it's got a good stretch and pretty good recovery but when we look at it with the vertical it really doesn't have much stretch it does recover well but it doesn't have enough stretch so I would put this in the borderline camp also it's a very fine slippery jersey. I think this would be a little bit difficult to deal with so I probably wouldn't choose that one. Here's another black jersey from my stash this was a remnant no idea what it is it's really soft and nice so let's apply the test about it looks a lot like the Blackbird fabric one - it's a bit more sheer as you might be able to see ...so good width wise stretch and recovery... good sign... let's look vertically. It has almost no vertical stretch so this would not be a good underwear making fabric in my opinion. Now let's talk about merino so I have a few different merino (sticky tape there!) I have a few different merino here this one - so they all actually come from the fabric store online in New Zealand this is a merino Jersey with some lycra in it so good width ways stretch and recovery and then vertically it's pretty good as well. So this would make me a good candidate I think if I wanted to make some merino underwear. I also have this merino Jersey from perfect store online this is a 100% lightweight merino it's got good width way stretch - not bad recovery actually considering there's no lycra in there but it has almost no vertical stretch if I were really set on doing a 100% merino underwear and I really didn't want any lycra at all then I would probably make a higher rise in both the front and the back just to ensure that it would conform around my curves. This is a scrap of a merino rib knit so the 100% merino good horizontal stretch not too much vertical stretch. I have made underwear out of this this was a remnant it was very inexpensive and it had holes in it and that's why it was so cheap so I did make some underwear out of it because that's about all I could make from it and they're fine, they're fine underwear but they don't have quite as much rise as I would prefer but I still wear them so I would just say if your if your fabric does have a lot less vertical stretch that I would definitely recommend increasing that rise or even sizing up. So I hope that has helped you with choosing a fabrics for your underwear 