 (gentle music) - [Narrator] Global communications networks are changing fast. They used to depend on proprietary, vertically-integrated systems from a single vendor. 5G lets you move to open, cloud-native platforms with industry-standard compute, storage, and networking, running modular software from a wide range of vendors. 5G network transformation will ultimately result in wide-scale deployment of geographically distributed, heterogeneous, multi-vendor clouds. This flexibility creates many benefits, but also introduces management challenges. The first challenge is that 5G networks will incorporate thousands of independent, geographically distributed sites. This will overload existing infrastructure management systems and result in limited scalability. Second, the multiple management systems required for compute, storage, and networking create enormous operational complexity that saps efficiency and drives up costs, and third, Telcos typically have to maintain multiple vendor-specific management systems, which only adds to the complexity. It's clear that a new management approach is needed. One that will pave the way for next-gen, distributed telco networks. That's why HPE has developed The HPE Resource Aggregator for Open Distributed Infrastructure Management. It leverages an open, standards-based approach to help you streamline management of 5G cloud resources from edge to core. It enhances scalability by aggregating resource information and controlling the underlying infrastructure on behalf of your preferred management systems. This masks the underlying complexity and enables you to scale operations without modifying existing management systems. It unifies and simplifies operations with an open, standards-based DMTF Redfish API that's already widely supported by telco infrastructure management systems. This can be used as the single common interface for your management systems. It seamlessly integrates management via a plugin layer that lets any vendor develop code to translate proprietary and legacy infrastructure interfaces into a Redfish-compliant format. Because of these three benefits, the HPE Resource Aggregator for Open Distributed Infrastructure Management can help you lower costs. It lowers CapEx by expanding vendor choice and providing investment protection for legacy hardware via plugins. It lowers OpEx by reducing management complexity and increasing efficiency to enable rapid network scalability, and it ultimately paves the way for automating end-to-end lifecycle operations. As the industry continues to evolve, HPE is investing in IT innovations that will empower telcos to succeed in the 5G era. (gentle music) 