 [MUSIC PLAYING] welcome to this session on the CIO Guide for Cloud and Hybrid Integration Landscapes. My name is Matthias Allgaier. I'm part of the product management team for the intelligent enterprise technology area, where we are also taking care about SAP's overall integration strategy. let's have a look at the agenda for this session today. In the first part I would like to give you an overview on the SAP integration strategy for the intelligent enterprise, and then also deep dive on the integration guides that we have also prepared for you as integration enterprise architects. In the second part of the presentation, I would like also to present a foundation for this session with the integration solution advisory methodology. So this covers the basic patterns that we are talking about also in the integration architecture guide here, and that's the foundation. And then as the main part of this session, I would like to go into two areas of integration. one is the process integration area, and one is the data integration area. And finally, will also conclude with the key takeaways and also give you an outlook on what's up next. let's get started with the first part, and I would also like to start here with the overall integration strategy that we have outlined. beginning of the year, we have published this integration strategy in a paper called "SAP's integration plan in the cloud." So we have also linked this year for your reference to this presentation. And basically, what we are driving here is the end to end business process integration across the SAP products, but also including non-SAP products and third party applications. And we do this not only from a technical integration perspective, we really do this from an end to end business process perspective. And that's what you can see here in the upper part of the presentation of this stack that we are driving this along for end to end processes, like lead to cash, design to operate, source to pay, and recruit to retire. And there are some more SAP process behind this high level processes, and this is really covering the overall value chain of an organization. And to really implement this end to end processes we have of course SAP products involved into these processes with the intelligence suite that you can also see here in the center of the presentation that includes, of course, S/4HANA and all of our LoP applications that together really implement this end to end processes. And to really come also to a consistent integration, we have also outlined seven suite qualities that you can see below that are really the ingredients that allow you to integrate this end to end processes in a consistent manner here. And the suite qualities are like the user experience that we are working on some consistent screen flows between the application itself, but also including security identity management aspects, like effecting a single sign on, very important. I will also come to this in a couple of minutes, our line data models, that we have also consistent usage of a common data model towards this application, of course, that we're trying. And there are many more suite qualities. Like for example, [INAUDIBLE] inbox having really one task management that includes the task of the various SAP applications, and also the end to end business process blueprints that also give you an overview on the end to end scenarios. as a foundation here, we have the business technology platform. Here in particular, the SAP Cloud Platform Integration suite. So this is really the foundation that provides to all of the integration services that are needed in this overall picture. So this is also shown on this slide that's also the hybrid integration platform from SAP that we are providing that covers all of the different services like cloud platform integration for any trade integration, B2B integration. We have, of course, also event driven architectures. Included here is enterprise messaging. And we have also rich capabilities, of course, to integrating these non-SAP applications suite, for example the open connectors. And I think also very, very important here is also the integration content that we are providing for this Integration Suite. So meaning APIs that you can see on the API Business Hub, but also the integration packages that really allow an end to end integration across the various applications, be it from SAP but also from the non-SAP part. that's also the foundation here for integration strategy and also if we now were also could go into the integration guides. We really want to if integration and enterprise architects here, equity over fuel, and also recommendations on the various add-ons and also we are including the [INAUDIBLE] of these integration services. I will go to the next slide to also give you an overview on the various integration guides that we have provided. as I mentioned, on the left hand side at the beginning of the year, we published this SAP integration plan in the cloud. this is more the end to end and focus we also outlined roadmaps for the elementary suite qualities. And on the right hand side, and this is also the focus of this session, we have focused more on the technology perspective. So we have where we will publish at TechEd integration architecture guide for cloud and hybrid landscapes. this is really complementing the high level SAP integration plan in the cloud these technology recommendations and typical integration patterns that we find in hybrid landscapes. And complementary to this, we also provide a management that's great for the executive management, which is here in the middle. this is really a short guide giving an overview on the hybrid integration platform, and it's more targeting for executive management and also customers, partners that want to get an overview on this topic. And in this session, as I mentioned, I will focus on the integration architecture guide. And I think it's also important. It's not a new guide, so it's really just a third edition of the document that you already might know from the past. we have renamed it to integration architecture guide because we are addressing here enterprise and integration architecture, architects. And what we have updated here is basically two parts. first of all, we have updated all of the sections, and we have, of course, also added newer parts like the one domain model, like cloud platform massive data integration, and also analytics integration. So these are also some newer parts that we have added to the guide. And so I would like to also give you a rough overview on what's in the guide in this integration architecture guide. first of all, as I also mentioned before, it's based on the methodology on the integration solution advisory methodology that you can see. Then we have also included foundational topics like what's the airline domain model strategy, how do APIs fit in and integration packages in this overall picture and so on. And the main part of the guide, we are going in four areas of integration. it's process integration, data integration, analytics integration, user integration. these are the major styles that we found here. We also edit of course areas of the set up and operations, domain like integration monitoring and the automation of integration. So what we also have here in the portfolio. today, I cannot go into all of the areas of the guide, due also to this limited time. So I picked up a couple of, let's say, focus areas for today. So first of all, I would like to start with the business methodology. Then we will also have a small chapter on foundation, and then the focus areas are the process and data integration that we will cover today. Yeah, as I mentioned, as the foundation, we are using the SAP integration solution Advisory Methodology. this is really a methodology. This is also open for customers and partners that allows an enterprise or integration architect to shape an overall integration strategy. it includes, in a nutshell, a couple of integration patterns, typical patterns that they frequently found in high pitch landscapes. And so these patterns can then also be applied and derived from the specific customer context to the related best practices and integration recommendations in a specific customer context. And it also includes a couple of blueprints that can also be used as a template for integration architects. We also have a dedicated session on the methodology. if you're also interested in this topic, so feel also free to join the IIS104 session. To also do a bit more into the details of the methodology as it's also the foundation for the integration architecture guide. So basically, three steps. So the first step is that we really start really high level on an hybrid integration landscape. So what are different domains in there. Then we have in our second step integration patterns in a classified oval fuel like process integration patterns, data integration patterns, user integration, and IoT integration to just name a few of them. And these patterns are very important. Our technology agnostic and then we also met in this third step to integration technologies that are relevant in the specific customer context. Just to give you a bit more of an impression on the methodology, a couple of these blueprints you will also find them in a block that we have recently published. these are also some templates that allow you to jump start, for example, if you want to define your integration strategy, your discussing with your project teams and integration architects on data integration patterns, on data integration patterns, on a digital integration hub. there are many different areas of integration. And so the methodology also includes this kind of new plans that you then also can use in order to be adapted to your specific needs. that's basically the methodology, and I would also like to now go into two, at least two foundational topics that we also have in the integration architecture guide that are also, I think, very helpful in this exercise here. So the first one that you can also find on the API Business Hub are the end to end process blueprints. You're describing the end to end processes that I have also shown on my first slide that allow you also to get an overview. OK, how has this end to end process also spread across the various applications that you can also deep dive into. So called manual flow diagrams, into collaboration diagrams. You can also figure out what is the data flow between the applications to really come to this end to end process. And I think that's also very important for enterprise or solution architects to understand and then also adapt it to the specific needs in the customer context. And we also have a dedicated session here. It's IIS103 where we also do a bit more into this end to end process blueprints. I think also very important for our integration strategy are also they're like domain models going forward. So this is, basically, also addressing the integration challenges that you see today that a lot of our data models are really not aligned, and this means that there's a lot of integration effort ongoing to really make all of the data. And I think one very important area also in our integration strategy are is aligned domain models that we, yeah really want to establish for the main domains reference data models that are then also used and exchanged between our LOB applications and so we have also published the first models of this aligned domain models on the API Business Hub. So that's also something that you can see there. There's also Explorer, first version of an Explorer available so where you can find SAML will also process the first objects like costs center over first person down here. I think the end-to-end process blueprint as well as the align to main models are really also complementary and I think also a good foundation for integration enterprise architects and designing an overall strategy and therefore, the FO is included these two topics into the integration architecture guide. OK so so far in a nutshell, we do not only want to talk about a specific products in the integration architecture guide but we really base this on the foundational, from methodology. Also including a platform and technology agnostic pattern set in also B, can be adapted to the specific needs of a customer context. OK and so based on this foundation, I would like to also walk you through the integration architecture guide and the first area that we want to do with the process integration area, I think this is also one of the of course key foundations for every hybrid integration landscape and so in this area, what you can see also here on this slide, it's an overview on the process integration capabilities that we have also in the SAP Cloud Platform. So the SAP Cloud Platform Integration service, that's really our hybrid integration service that allows you to connect on-prem applications. It's cloud applications but also cloud to cloud integration is covered by SAP Cloud Platform Integration and so this is also complemented by SAP Process Orchestration, more focusing on the on-prem to on-prem integration and of course also those services are complementary. And as out of the integration architecture guide, we have also included detailed guidance on when we use Cloud Platform Integration and how to combine also this Process Orchestration and also for customers they also want to migrate, migrate towards SAP Cloud Platform Integration. The integration architecture guide also include some guidance there. I think the second point what is also very important here, it's also the integration, it's the non-SAP or third-party applications that you can also see here. So we are also offering a rich set of connectors and also offer integration packages. It's also including partner content and partner solutions. that's also I think a key principle of our integration strategy underlying also the openness of integration and I think also a very important area of integration or domain of integration is B2B integration and so the integration with business partners or the integration is also public authorities. I think this is also a typical use case for this process integration. As I mentioned also the integration architecture guide, we also provide more guidance and further links on these two very important areas here. One I think also a frequent question that we got also from customers especially also from integration architects is this typical question OK, so what integration logic should I put into a middle layer, like Process Orchestration or SAP Cloud Platform Integration and what kind of integration related patterns should I also or could I embed more nearer to the application, for the application layer and so one typical product that we have here it said SAP Application Interface Framework. this is also part of S/4HANA or an add-on for the Business Suite that allows you also to implement some kind of integration logic within the application layer and so what we did here also on this slide was to outline here typical integration pattern like a structure mapping. if you have different data models, different structures like routing, so you want for example, you need to do a content based routing determine to receive applications or implementing patterns like to split messages or aggregate messages or you need to adapt different protocols like suppress OData or chain SO. These are all typical and I think also traditional patterns for the integration layer, like our platform integration, but we also see here some patterns that can also be used in a complimentary way. Also in this last layer of integration, nearer the applications. Like for example, if we have some kind of a dynamic value mapping, maybe you also need to access back end logic that is typically was in the back end application. that could also be a pattern more related to the application layer and or another example is the aero engine by business users. if you for example, if an invoice fails and you want to also handle this invoice in the context of the application, I think this is also a typical pattern more for the application layer and so what we also did here in the integration architecture guide, it's really also a foundation that you can use also if you want to for example derive your own integration guidelines, derive your own integration best practices, we can also use this pattern or this as a starting point key. let us go also to the next very important area also, especially important also for the intelligent enterprise. It's about master data integration. So typically in the past, we also tried to show here this evolution of master data integration topics. So on the left-hand side, you can see typical point to point integrations that are really hard to maintain and if master data is also I think one of the key challenges in hybrid landscapes. If you only have point to point integration, it's really hard to manage all of these different master data synchronizations and uploads and the second step here in this evolution is master data governance. really taking care of central master data hub in the middle and I think that's also still highly relevant and this third evolution and that's also now targeting to the intelligent enterprise strategy. It's that we really want to simplify the exchange of master data between the LOB applications and so for this purpose, we are, as I mentioned also before, we are working on this aligned domain models and so based on this aligned domain models, we have this SAP cloud master data indications. So it's also a new service, which is also part of the Integration Suite that allows really to simplify the exchange of master data between the applications and so this is also complementary tool, the SAP Master Data Governance product, more focusing on the master data management. And so in the integration architecture guide, you will also find additional information on this pattern of master data integration and I have also included one, one slide here to also show it a bit more in detail, also from a guidance perspective. what you can see here on the lower part of the picture, it's the master data integration for the intelligence need and having our class master data integration really as the, as the central exchange infrastructure for master data, for synchronized master data in the applications and so this is also closely aligned with the, it's the initiative of the aligned domain models and so it's also closely related to the road map for the aligned domain models that we have also, yeah it's posted in the SAP integration plan, in the cloud, but we also have linked here and so that's also something that we want to increase in future of course. And the second area of integration, if you can also want to integrate third-party integrations or maybe also leverage some additional integration patterns. that's also why or there in SAP Cloud Platform Integration's need. Now can be used complementary especially for the is non-SAP integration part here and so the integration for third-party and the governance part here, it's still of course complementary to SAP Cloud Platform or Cloud Master Data Integration. It's the SAP Master Data Governance. So this is also complementary here to this approach. I would also like to link you here, to a dedicated session on master data integration and also on the One Domain Model, so it's the IIS120, where you can also find additional guidance there. And I think there's also a very good blog out there, also describing what we have also linked here in the presentation, also describing the complimentary usage of master data integration, master data management. So if you're interested also here in additional details, also feel free to join the session or we will produce additional information. OK, if we also goes through the various let's say types of integration, I think API based integration is also a very key, let's say use case of integration. Of course APIs are also key for any digital transformation and so we also have here on SAP Cloud Platform Integration Suite a rich set of capabilities that also cover this area of API and also API management. Of course, we have the SAP API Business Hub that you can also see here in the middle part, where you can find the APIs, where you also can find the integration packages, where you also can find the One Domain Models that has already been exposed and also the reference processes. I think that's not only related to APIs, but it's really contents for across all of the different artifacts for integration and I would like to go here also in a specific context into the API management because that's also one of the questions typically discussed in integration projects or what kind of logic can I put into an API management layer and what kind of logic can I put rather in the traditional integration layer like cloud platform integration and that's something that we also expose here on the next slide. Also in the similar way, some guidance on integration patterns here. So typical patterns that you can implement or that you also recommend to implement in the API management layer out of all of the, your patterns related to API traffic management like policies, like row cards, likes spikes that you want to manage. So I think this is a typical area. Of course also API security policies is something that you typically implement in an API management layer. Of course also analytics on APIs and monetization use cases and then complementary to this, are also the patterns like structure mappings, protocol adaptations, routing, splitter, aggregator. this are also typical patterns that can be implemented in the integration layer. As I also mentioned, it's not always black and white and we also use this also as part of the integration architecture guide. Really it's a starting point for integration architects to also adapt this then to the specific areas in the customer context. So it should got to be some guiding principles that you can also derive out of this all, if you want. So this was not a first part of integration, the first set of integration which was process integration. It's the different capabilities like a Tray integration, B2B, a master data integration, API integration. And now we come to the second very awesome, very important pillar of integration, it's data integration. So let's move on here to the next slide and that's also covered by the SAP Data Intelligence portfolio and the related SAP Enterprise Information Management portfolio. what are the challenges here that we are facing in hybrid landscapes? What we can see here is that data is really yeah, overall in the hybrid landscape that we have a lot of different let's say data sources, data targets with data warehouse, these data modes, this cloud data storages. we have a lot of different areas that we are dealing and transforming data be it on the cloud, be it on-prem, be it in hybrid scenarios. So and this also makes a lot of complexity or Edge complexity to the data landscape because we didn't also have to figure out how to manage all of the metadata, the data code catalogs and so on. And of course also very important how can you also use this data then in the context of business processes and I think that's exactly also the challenges that we take up is the SAP Data Intelligence portfolio, really as a hybrid data management platform allowing you to implement data integration use cases. So this means that you can also extract data out of the different sources also put it in a semantic context and then also prepare it for further usage and we also have a dedicated session here on this SAP Data Intelligence area. So it's DAT110. I could also highly recommend to attend this one. also in the integration architecture guide, we want to create this guidance also on the data integration tools that, as I mentioned data integration, it's really our target solution where we also streamline the different data management capabilities like data integration, data management and data processing but of course, there's also an existing portfolio that's of course also still valid and also in the integration architecture guide, we get some guidance here. So for example, when to use data services and to use for example, the integration capabilities within HANA. So smart data integration. For example, if you want to load data into HANA. there is also a dedicated chapter in the integration architecture guide and also a dedicated decision table that also gives you more, more recommendations and also more guidelines and guidance on end user data integration towards and also how to combine them. So I think that's also a very important aspect of the integration architecture guide. It's the target picture of the SAP Data Intelligence. Yeah and I think also one important topic if you are designing an overall enterprise integration strategy, it's also the relationship between process integration, data integration also now comparing and bringing together the first part of the presentation with the second part of the presentation. process integration characteristics SAP Cloud Platform Integration Suite and the related capabilities, it's all about chaining business processes as we are also doing this in the intelligent enterprise, of course in hybrid landscapes. we have typical patterns, A2A integration, business partner integration, of course also master data integration as the key foundation for any process integration and typically we also need to hear from an integration perspective, it's transactional integrity. Meaning for example rolling back messages, also in helping monitoring on the single messages related to business documents and typically this kind of integration, so also API base. And also complementary and compare triggers, it's the data integration style that you can see on the right-hand side. it's also about integration but integration on the data layer just means pipelining and orchestration in data in hybrid landscapes and we have the typical ETL like scenario, say you extract and process data, to data integration flows are much more and the data orchestration level with for example reading data from storage is also transforming it, preparing it to be used in a business process context and typically you are also dealing with an excess on data level and not on the business API level. And so this is also something that you can find in the integration architecture guide, also with additional guidance. that should also help you to really shape an overall enterprise integration strategy here. Yeah so, so far we have seen the process integration and data integration part of the guide and of course, we have many more interesting topics. Also on the integration architecture guide that I would not bring in into this presentation, but I would like to give you a heads up on this. So we have event-based integration included and I think that's also very important also, especially in hybrid landscapes. Then we have an addition or section on AI-driven integration that I could also not embed into this TechEd session. So it's all about simplifying integration, also leveraging the machine learning capabilities and crowdsourcing technologies tool for example. Simplify the task to create mappings and or to customize interfaces. So I think that's also very important approach. Then analytics integration, so that was also a new part in the guide that we have added. So what is the overview and the approach to integrate for example SAP Data Warehouse Cloud and SAP Analytics Cloud. Then in the area of user centric integration. we have for example, if you want to integrate mobile applications, if you want to integrate Fiori based applications. The integration guide also or integration architecture guide also carries a subset of these patterns. We are specifically focusing on the various OData provisioning options and regarding the SAP Fiori user experience and also get some recommendations there. And then of course also the cross topics like integration monitoring, integration automation are also part of the integration architecture guide that you can find also some additional guidance of course. Yeah, so let me also wrap up this TechEd session here with the key takeaways. So I think it was around through the various aspects of hybrid integration strategy that is also covered in the integration architecture guide. I think three main takeaways. We have, with the SAP Cloud Platform Integration Suite, we have one hybrid integration platform that covers all of the different integration services needed to integrate SAP, but also the non-SAP space. Also including business partners. So that's really the hybrid integration platform covering also process and data integration capabilities, also included in base integration and so on. So that's the platform. The second key takeaway for me is the integration solution advisory methodology. So that really helps you to guide your integration architect and your integration projects with the related guidance. So you can also use this methodology. We also provide a free template for the methodology to derive to various integration that patterns explore what is relevant in your context, adopted of course also to your dedicated recommendations in your context and the third key takeaways is immigration architecture guide that I have mentioned and presented here in this session. So this also is based of course on the methodology, but it also gives you more context and more and additional recommendations also of how these patterns can be implemented based on the tools and on the services that we have in the Integration Suite. I think these are the three main key takeaways process in Outlook. we plan to publish the integration architecture guide in this year or guide at TechEd. You will also find the links then on our SAP Integration solution advisory methodology web page that I have also included here into the deck. There you will also find the links to further information regarding the methodology, also regarding integration patterns and so on. In addition also from an overall integration strategy perspective, we will also update on a regular basis the intelligent enterprise overview, what we published with SAP's integration plan in the cloud and I think also very important is SAP Road Map Explorer where you can also find detailed road map information and detailed information on the progress on the various areas be it on the functional side, but be it also on the technical side. I think this is also something that you can use to also blueprint your architectures and finally, I would also like to thank all of the customers and partners that also provided feedback in the last two or three years on the integration and see our all guides. I think this was always very helpful for us to also improve the guides and that's something that we also want to continue. So we also highly appreciate your feedback. So if you are missing some topics in the guide or if you are missing some, maybe also new patterns that might come up in the future in the context of hybrid integration, so really feel free to reach out to us so that we can also can just, can use this as a backlog for future updates of the guide. feel free to also send us an email or approach us here. Yeah finally, I would also like to refer you to additional sessions that we have here at TechEd this year and I also mentioned them as part of my presentation because this was now more the umbrella and if you are interested in the detailed presentations then in the detailed software various topics, feel free also to attend the sessions. Yeah, that also relates me to the last slide, the learning experience for TechEd where you can also of course find additional sessions on the Learning Hub and to also improve your solution skills on the various topics, especially also on the Integration area, we have many different sessions available. I would also like to thank you for attending this session. I hope this was also interesting for you and you will also find more details then when the guides are published. Thanks a lot for joining this session. 