 Hey guys, huddle up! It's time for another  Around the Storage Block Chalk Talk.   In this Chalk Talk, I want to look at  HPE GreenLake for Storage – after all,   I am the Storage Godfather. In a recent Chalk  Talk, I gave an introduction to HPE GreenLake. If   you’re not already familiar with HPE GreenLake,  I highly recommend you watch that Chalk Talk.   The short summary is that HPE GreenLake is  the cloud that comes to you and brings the   cloud experience everywhere for apps and data in  edges, colocations and data centers. The keys to   understanding HPE GreenLake is: It's self-service  with an intuitive self-service portal. Pay-per-use   that boosts financial flexibility. Scale up and  down as you need to with ease. And managed for   you by HPE and our partners freeing up resources.  So let’s look closer at HPE GreenLake for Storage.   You need a simple way to transform from IT  operator to service provider for your business   and help your business get more value  from their data—wherever it resides.   Storage infrastructure with the performance,  scale, agility and efficiency your business needs   can be yours in days with HPE GreenLake. What  can you expect from HPE GreenLake for Storage?  • Faster time to value • Scale on demand  • Pay for what you use • And free up IT resources  I love sharing numbers and I  have a couple now: 45% and 100%.  • On average, enterprises  overprovision storage purchases by 45%   more capacity than is actually needed. • The HPE GreenLake storage service for   mission critical workloads provides  100% storage availability as the   service is built on HPE Primera. Our new Cloud Services for storage   build on what is already the strongest  offering in the GreenLake portfolio,   with the majority of our customers already having  a GreenLake enabled Storage as-a-Service solution.   They are workload-optimized, consumption-based  solutions built on an intelligent data platform.  I already mentioned what these cloud services for  storage provide you with but I’ll show you again   because it’s so key and important to understand.  HPE GreenLake for storage has offerings to meet   exactly what your workload needs across mission  critical, business critical and general purpose   apps. I’ll pause here for a second to point out  that these are delivered with HPE Primera and HPE   Nimble Storage and of course I have Chalk Talks  that you can watch to better understand those   portfolios – so check them out. For Mission-Critical apps,   if downtime will cripple your business, we  offer configurations with 100% availability   and very low latency powered by HPE Primera  all flash. Business-Critical applications,   for primary workloads, require configurations with  strict service level agreements for availability   and performance. This is where HPE Nimble Storage  All Flash Arrays combine a flash-efficient   architecture to achieve fast, reliable access  to data and six nines measured availability.  With General Purpose workloads you need  configurations that are designed for   both primary and secondary workloads, offering  cost-efficiency with flash performance. Here,   HPE Nimble Adaptive Flash hybrid storage arrays  combine affordable flash performance with a   radically simple architecture for mainstream  workloads, and also with six nines availability.  We also have HPE GreenLake storage services for  AI & Analytics to address growing unstructured   data needs. Deliver unprecedented security and  superior data visibility for your organization   with Qumulo’s modern hybrid file software  running on HPE Apollo 4200 Gen10 servers.  • Scale without limits • Get real-time insight into billions of files  • Automate your workflow • Use 100% of your available storage  You can meet storage needs for the densest object  data files with cost-effective long-term retention   and disaster recovery with Scality RING and HPE  Apollo 4200/4510 systems. • Integrate seamlessly   into both public and private clouds • Ensure long-term data retention  • Provide data search capabilities across  stored data, regardless of location.  Next let’s look at solutions to protect  your data everywhere, from edge to cloud.   Cloud services for data protection  through HPE GreenLake delivers cloud   services for the backup and recovery of data  to and from the cloud—without egress costs or   lock-in. Customers gain the data mobility and  portability that’s needed to protect data.•   Makes data protection effortless as  you meet every SLA at the right cost.  • Protects your data as-a-service  with elastic scale and pay-per-use.  • Unlocks the true value of your data and  transforms it to a value-added service.  Lastly, let me talk about specific cloud services  for data protection through HPE GreenLake:  • First, on-premises data protection: backup  and recover rapidly with an on-premises,   ultra-efficient, data protection  service based on HPE StoreOnce.  • Cloud storage and backup with Cloud Volumes:  seamlessly back up data to the cloud directly   without changing your existing workflows. • And 3rd party data protection from leading   backup ISVs with purpose built architectures  featuring Commvault, Veeam, or Cohesity.  To learn more, go to hpe.com/GreenLake  Always love to hear from you on twitter   where you can find me as @CalvinZito. You  can find my blog at hpe.com/storage/blog   Until next time thanks for joining me on  this Around the Storage Block Chalk Talk! 