 Hello, this is Leo from MAXST. We will create an iOS app with MAXST AR SDK and Unity to recognize the lego and augment 3D contents such as doll, tree and grass. Download Unity. As Unity’s license policy has been changed, there are two types, 5.x and 2017.x. MAXST AR SDK supports above Unity 5.6.2 and 2017.1. Download MAXST AR SDK from MAXST Developer site. We will use MAXST AR SDK ver.4.1 which is updated in Feb, 2019. There are some changes for Object Scanner function. You can create and manage maps with Map Manager for SDK ver.4.0 or earlier, and use Visual SLAM Tool for ver.4.1 or later. For now, as we are using MAXST AR SDK 4.1, please download Visual SLAM Tool from the App Store. First of all, we will train the target object and create a map with Visual SLAM Tool. Run Visual SLAM Tool app, and click ‘Map Creation’ button to start. Click ‘Start’ button, and slowly move camera in a clockwise direction in front of the target object. Once mapping is ready, yellow bounding box will appear. Adjust bounding box with ‘Size’ and ‘Position’ button. Drag the axis vertex in x, y, z direction to fit the target object. Now, let’s map the object 360 degrees. When training is successfully done, the box turns in yellow. To recognize even from a far distance, we will train from a distance, too. Click ‘Finish’ button to finish mapping. Next, we will use pin to indicate a specific location where a content to be augmented. Pin is newly added for Visual SLAM Tool to improve the accuracy of virtual contents’ location. Use pin to indicate a specific location where you want to place the virtual contents. Pin recognizes the depth of the point cloud; top, front, inside of the object.  Click ‘Save’ button to save the map. In the map management menu, you can manage the saved map file. Once you choose map file, you can use two modes; Test, Edit Pin. Test if the map was created well. You will see the yellow bounding box and pins. In Edit Pin mode at the top-right of the screen, you can edit the location of pin. You can click the created pin to delete, or place new pins at desired location. Now, we will go back to Map Management page to edit or delete the map file. Click ‘More’ button to share, modify or delete the map. Share: Share the map by email and develop the application on the computer. Modify: Rename the map. Delete: Delete the map. Run Unity and create a new project. Next, go to Assets and import package, click custom package. Import downloaded MAXST AR SDK. You can check that the assets are added in Project tab. To recognize the target object, go to Asset - MaxstARSamples - Scene and double click Object Tracker. All needed component will appear automatically. Add downloaded 3dmap file to Asset - Streaming Asset - MaxstAR folder. Click the object trackable and drag 3d map file to inspector. The trained space will be shown as an image. Now, let’s explore the map viewer. You will have to place cameras from different views while mapping. This view shows created keyframes. If you change the keyframe index, relevant images will be shown. You can also find pins with keyframes. With ‘Show Mesh’, you can see the shape of trained keyframe’s surface. You can locate 3d objects on the desired location. Transparent makes image and mesh transparent. This function helps you to locate more accurate. Next, we will add 3D virtual content which will be augmented. I downloaded doll, tree, and grass assets from Asset Store. Let’s place this 3D contents on the lego. First, we should move contents under the object trackable. I will place the doll on the pin where we indicated while creating a map. Drag the virtual content and place where the pin is. You can check the position more correctly with transparent mode.  Now, let’s click ‘Play’ button and place the web camera to trained environment. You can see contents are augmented well where the pins are. Let's build an app. To build an app, you need to insert the license key to AR camera. Click AR camera, and go to configuration to insert the license key. You can get the license from MAXST developer website. Go to Develop tab, and click license manager. You can find ‘Get License’ button. Input your app name and app ID. At App ID, put the bundle ID or package name of your project. Please be noted that you can NOT edit the app ID later. License is issued now. Select the SDK version, copy the license key and paste to AR camera’s configuration. Once you put the license key, we should enter the App ID. Click file on the top, and build setting, click iOS and player setting at the bottom. Insert the App ID at Bundle Identifier at Other Setting. Input ‘test’ at camera usage description. And then, click ‘Build’ button. XCode build screen will pop up. Uncheck ‘Automatically manage signing’ and check ‘all’ for signing. Start to build an app. Run the app. You can see that all virtual contents are augmented well. If you have any technical questions, please post on the forum page at MAXST Developer site. English and Korean are supported. Thank you! 