 Good day. My name is Bakul Patel. I am the Director for the FDA's Digital Health Center of Excellence and the Director for the Division of Digital Health at FDA's Center for Devices and Radiological Health; Today I will be providing an overview of the FDA's Digital Health Program and activities. To start, I wanted to highlight that the goal for the digital health efforts has been to foster responsible digital health innovation that will: Enhance patients' access to high-quality evidence-based digital health products; Enable manufacturers to rapidly improve their products while addressing emerging issues; and Ensure a least burdensome approach to maintaining a reasonable assurance of safety and effectiveness. As you all are aware, Digital Health Technology is at the cutting edge of consumer and patient health. It is paving the way for empowering patients to become informed participants in their health care decision making. This convergence of connectivity, health data, and computing power is making possible the potential for Moving health care from clinic to patients; Novel insights in understanding the patients "in the wild"; and Focusing on prevention for early smaller interventions. Digital health technologies are also providing new options for facilitating prevention, early diagnosis of life-threatening diseases, and management of chronic conditions outside of traditional care settings. Not all digital health technologies fall within the scope of the FDA's authority. Technologies that do fall within the FDA's scope include those that are intended to be: used as a medical device; incorporated into a medical product; used to manufacture medical products or to study a medical product, including in a clinical trial; or used as a companion or adjunct with a therapeutic or a diagnostic medical product. CDRH has been making progress on many of these areas for a long time-to name a few, software as a medical device, Software in a Medical device, wearables, medical device cybersecurity, and interoperability. As this work continued, it was important for industry and the FDA to commit to this emerging field--there were many opportunities as well as challenges that needed to be addressed. As part of the MDUFA IV commitments, FDA and industry jointly agreed to continue building on existing digital health work to address the needs of this rapidly evolving field. FDA committed to enhance this existing work by: Providing continued regulatory clarity; Building centralized digital health expertise; Staying current with advancements and supporting regulatory programs; Enhancing coordination and consistency; and Maintaining international harmonization. In the fall of 2017, the FDA released an integrated approach - the Digital Health Innovation Action Plan - that mapped out the commitments and a plan to build bench strength and expertise to support internal and for external stakeholders, refine policies and provide guidances in light of the 21st Century Cures Act, collaborate and partner with stakeholders, and develop a learning regulatory system that is tailored and aligned globally. The Digital Health Innovation Action Plan aligns nicely with the MDUFA IV commitments as denoted by the numbers on this slide. I'm going to walk you through each of these programmatic components and share with you some of the accomplishments over the last few years. I'll start with "building bench strength and expertise" In 2017, CDRH formally established a centralized Digital Health unit and subsequently formalized that unit into a division giving permanency within the organization. As we continue to foster responsible digital health innovation, recently we announced the launch of the Digital Health Center of Excellence - This launch will further FDA's ability to drive synergy and coordinate digital health related efforts at the FDA. In addition to creating this infrastructure, several systematic efforts continue to build and supplement technical expertise across CDRH Through the experiential learning program, 220 CDRH staff visited 17 digital health manufacturers' facilities to get hands-on knowledge. In 2018 and 2019, we brought in seasoned individuals with practical experience through our entrepreneurs in residence program and presidential innovation fellows program. We also have a standing job opening for candidates to join FDA in its digital health mission. Next, I'll discuss how the FDA is supporting internal and external stakeholders: The FDA's goal here is to expand policy knowledge on digital health technologies and to maintain consistency in application of those policies. The digital health division also provides inquiry support to all stakeholders internal and external, and provides submission support through consults. CDRH established the focal point program - designed to maintain consistency and knowledge to resolve unique submission issues across CDRH's Offices of Health Technologies or OHTs. The program is structured to include representatives from all review areas along with the digital health team. This structure enables the Digital health program to understand opportunities and needs for the center. Addressing one of the needs the program developed software 101 training for reviewers to have a basic understanding of the software development process. In addition, this group is also in the process of developing aids and tools for reviewers that will help staff navigate different policy documents. Starting with FY 2018, we implemented a "Digital Health" flag to mark submissions with digital health content. Looking at trends in submission -- For the last few years the submissions volume has been rising year-over-year, however the average submission timelines are comparable to other submissions and within our goals. In addition to regulatory submissions, the digital health team also provides support to stakeholders inquiring about policies for solutions or products. We have been receiving more than 600 inquiries per year. About 80% of those are from external stakeholders. The volume of these inquiries has increased over the last two years. Prior to 2017 we used to receive approximately 30 inquiries per month. For the last three years our volume has more than doubled to approximately 60 to 80 inquiries per month. Even with this increased volume, on an average we respond in FY2020 within 14 days for 80% of these inquiries - which is our internal target. In FY2020 we continue to exceed our goals with a median response time of about 5 days. As part of the MDUFA IV - specifically, digital health commitments 2 and 3 - it was important for the FDA to revise and publish new and relevant guidance documents to provide clarity to stakeholders. Specifically, commitment 2 called for finalizing the software modifications guidance 18 months after the comment period ended on the draft guidance. In this case, the FDA finalized the guidance well before the commitment timeframe. As I noted earlier, this emerging area yields emerging issues and risks, which require ongoing clarity on policies, approaches, and guidance for stakeholders and staff. Since the beginning of FY2018 the digital health program has published 11 guidances--this is a phenomenal achievement for this program. I want to highlight that in the field of cyber security we continue to make progress. FDA issued a draft guidance for Content of Premarket Submissions for Management of Cybersecurity in Medical Devices. We also established internal collaborations to drive consistency in the premarket review. As I mentioned earlier a special focal point program was established for cybersecurity. This focal point team along with the cybersecurity team created tools and templates for reviewers to look at cybersecurity in medical devices. This is just one of example where continued clarity and a learning environment needs to be in place. In addition to providing ongoing clarity, MDUFA IV committed the FDA to engage and build partnerships with stakeholders. The FDA continues to collaborate in many ways, building upon the work item at the International Medical Device Regulators Forum (or IMDRF). Our engagement there led to the book of work on Software as a Medical Device. FDA is adapting and using these principles, as appropriate, in its guidance documents and in programs the FDA is building such as the Software Precertification Pilot Program. Citing 2 specific collaborations at IMDRF: FDA Co-chaired the medical device cybersecurity working group to develop principles and practices for medical devices. This document was finalized in March of 2020. In addition, the FDA is currently participating in the artificial intelligence (or AI) in medical devices workgroup. This group's charter is to develop guidance to align and harmonize on key definitions and terminology for AI in medical devices. This work is led by the South Korean regulatory body. In addition to collaborating with other regulators The FDA is participating in two collaborative communities on artificial intelligence and machine learning. Over the last three years the digital health team has participated in 90 plus speaking engagements, established a network of experts specifically for Digital Health to have access to 35 experts in this area, we've conducted boot camps with academic institutions and conducted at least three in-person public workshops. Collaborations in the field of Cybersecurity include: FDA is currently co-chairing a group on Legacy Device issues underneath the Healthcare Sector Coordinating Council to explore potential paths forward. FDA is currently co-chairing a group on Vulnerability Communications to advance the state of sector communications with stakeholders regarding cybersecurity vulnerabilities. FDA participated in the National Telecommunications and Information Administration, which is developing best practices for software transparency (and software bill of materials) Within the Digital Health space, FDA continues not only to meet our MDUFA IV commitments, but to exceed them. As part of MDUFA IV, we committed to exploring opportunities to establish premarket pathways that were tailored to digital health technologies. Building on that commitment, CDRH has made significant progress in exploring a novel agile regulatory paradigm that would be tailored and aligned globally with the harmonized principles. The digital health software precertification program or Pre-Cert Program - was envisioned in 2017. Since the inception of the program the FDA has been transparent and engaging stakeholders in the process of building, testing, and iterating this concept. To name a few major milestones, in 2018 we continued to build the concept with 9 pilot participants and other volunteers to develop a program working model. In 2019 we published version 1.0 of the program working model along with a test plan. The digital health team continues to test, build, and iterate the concepts of Pre-Cert to better understand without compromising our standard of reasonable assurance of safety and effectiveness. This program envisions moving from an episodic oversight to continuous oversight that enables trust in the organization using a pragmatic check-in with real-world performance data. Most recently we provided an update on the ongoing work in building this program. in 2019 building upon the concept of the precertification pilot program The FDA proposed a novel approach to artificial intelligence and machine-learning or AI-ML. The goal of this framework is to create an innovative pathway for these technologies that improves overtime and has a potential for advancing the standard of care. For both of these regulatory innovation efforts, the FDA has engaged stakeholders to begin building this new paradigm. We have engaged in public meetings and through publishing documents. We have also engaged with stakeholders and received many useful comments from the public through the Federal Register docket. All these efforts at collaboration, building expertise, clarifying policies, has led to important public health outcomes. Here are some notable examples that realized the potential of digital health: As of September 2020, there are three major manufacturers of consumer wearables who are pioneers in providing ECG to individuals. These products are reaching millions and helping individuals engage in their heart health. Earlier this year, the FDA permitted marketing of a novel game-based therapy for children with ADHD. And in the field of digital therapeutics, we're seeing an increased use of software that provides coaching and cognitive behavior therapy for many conditions. As we continue this journey of digital health - we recently announced the launch of the digital health center of excellence, which sets the stage to enhance coordination, further build and access expertise to help digital health innovators and FDA staff. Our goal for the center is to empower all stakeholders to advance healthcare with high-quality digital health technology. Before I close my talk, I want to note that the digital health program has accomplished and exceeded most of the commitments in MDUFA IV. To recap the digital health program has: Served more than 2000+ customers through the Digital health email inbox, and engaged with more than 100 stakeholders Met 510(k) Goals Digital health submission timelines are comparable to other submissions Created access to more than 35 experts in addition to inhouse expertise as we continue to build capacity Published 22 public documents that embraces ongoing clarity and transparency But our work is not done: The Digital health market size is projected to grow at a compounded rate of 25% in the next five years. And it is anticipated that in light of COVID-19 digital health technologies will have increased adoption beyond the current projections. FDA and industry must continue to build, evolve and adapt in order to keep pace with this exponentially growing field, so that the potential benefits of digital health are realized for all individuals and patients. Thank you! 