 In this video we're going to show you how to set up an AR indoor navigation based on QR codes with the GuideBOT template. Using QR codes for indoor navigation is a quick and easy approach to establish a permanent coordinate system. If you're interested in other tracking approaches like: bluetooth beacons, magnetic fields, WIFI (like Apple's indoor positioning), ceiling antennas or visual recognition please contact us. We also offer an admin interface to set up larger areas based on the provided map of the location. To download the demo QR codes go to viewar.com and click on the documentation in the footer. Navigate to the guide but section under tutorials and click on demo QR codes to download a PDF with sample QR codes. When printing the QR codes, make sure that scaling is set to 100%. You can easily check the correct size of your printout by using a credit card. Once you have your QR codes ready, you can start placing them. They can be placed either on the floor or on the walls along your navigation path. In this example, we will use the floor. The general rule is that the closer they are the higher the tracking precision will be. Also keep in mind that they should be in the field of view of your path so the system recalibrates when walking and they should be easy to find for the user. When you have placed the QR codes start the GuideBOT app and create a new map. Calibrate the floor and start by scanning QR code number one. The animated red circle indicates a successful recognition. For the best results create waypoints not closer than 50 centimeters and not further than 10 meters from each other. While creating your waypoints you will come across the other QR codes. Scanning them will save their position and let the user start the navigation from any of the QR codes. Again make sure that the animated red circle appears. To set up a location in your map, which can later be selected for navigation you have to place a point of interest. To do so move close to the desired location and press the POI button. This will add a point of interest at the position of your phone. You can also save an image of the POI and add a description text. Now continue placing further waypoints and POI's. Make sure that each QR code along the path is recognized correctly. After finishing your path and creating all desired points of interest you can tap the save button to save your map to the cloud. You can still edit and extend the map using the editing mode. Relaunch the GuideBOT demo app and load your map. Choose navigate, calibrate the floor and scan a QR code that's nearest to you Next, select a point of interest and the GuideBOT will bring you to your desired location. You can start the navigation from any previously scan QR code on your map. Now you set up your first GuideBOT with QR codes, well done. If you have created your own app and you're logged in with your account credentials you can select a map and set it to active. This will load the map when you hit the start button on the home screen of your GuideBOT app. If your route is slightly off the track and the QR code indicating circles aren't displayed properly you can just scan a QR code and the map realigns. If you have further questions just visit our tutorial section or documentation or don't hesitate to contact us if you're experiencing problems. Just use the support chat or contact us via email: support@viewar.com 