 If you get invited for a first-round interview with a large company in the near future, it's possible that it will be an automated video interview. I know what you're thinking: "I'm being interviewed by a robot??" Well, something like that. You're about to experience interviewing in the age of artificial intelligence! So, what exactly are we talking about here? These automated video platforms are basically software bots that use artificial intelligence to analyze verbal and nonverbal information in a video interview. Why do companies use them? The main goal is that it automates the recruitment process, which is especially useful in very large companies that need to efficiently review a massive volume of applications. Although efficiency is certainly the main reason companies use these platforms, another goal is to minimize human bias in the screening process, which potentially creates greater equity for candidates. In order to help you shine in this format and outsmart the bot, let's break it down into three main areas: what to expect of the process, how to set up your physical space, and how to prepare yourself. First, what can you expect when being interviewed by a bot? A typical interview will go something like this: A question will display on-screen, with about 30 seconds allotted to prepare your thoughts. Your answer will then be recorded, with 1 to 3 minutes allotted for your response. The program may or may not allow you to re-record your answer, but usually not. The platform will then repeat this process until all questions have been answered. Once your interview is submitted, the employer may choose to personally review your responses. Or, the employer may choose not to watch the video and instead have the software generate a report about it. This report will analyze the text of your answer for keywords from the job posting, and it will also assess non-verbal information such as eye contact, facial expressions, and tone of voice. The next step is to think about how you should set up your physical space. Consider the devices you will use for the video, as well as the surroundings that are visible on screen. You'll need a webcam and microphone, such as the ones built into most laptops. Check the computer settings to confirm that the microphone and camera are working. And of course, make sure you have a strong internet connection! You'll want to place the laptop on a flat, stable surface, with the camera at eye level. Select a quiet, private place to do the interview, in an area with minimal background noise. Remove any clutter or distracting items that appear on-screen. Position yourself so there is strong lighting on your face, and so you are not backlit when you face the camera. And finally, how can you prepare yourself? The first thing to remember is to utilize many of the same strategies you would use to prepare for any interview. This includes dressing for success, researching the employer, and practicing common interview questions. In addition to those strategies, keep in mind these specific tips: Look into the camera to simulate eye contact. The A.I. bot will be tracking this, so it's one of the easiest ways for you to stand out from other candidates. Be sure to project positivity and warmth. Non-verbal cues such as smiling, as well as changes in your vocal inflection, are interpreted as evidence that you are friendly and engaged. Avoid "upspeak." This is the term for vocal inflection that rises at the end of sentences, making a statement sound more like a question. The bot may interpret this as a lack of confidence. Similarly, minimize the use of filler words such as "um," "like," and "you know," which can also be interpreted as lack of confidence or uncertainty. If you need to refer to notes, try posting them on a wall behind the camera or on sticky notes around your monitor. This helps you maximize your eye contact with the camera. As you prepare, try video recording yourself answering common interview questions, then play it back to track things like facial expression, filler words, and eye contact. Perfecting these aspects of your self-presentation will help you outsmart the bot and get one step closer to your next opportunity! 