 Hey guys and welcome back, So in the last lecture we created a simple car counting app, In this video I will demonstrate how YOLOv4 can be combined with a powerful tracking model called DeepSORT to track vehicles on a highway. DeepSORT which was created by Wojke et al in 2017, is a tracking-by detection algorithm. So, what happens is that it only considers information about the current and previous frames to make predictions about the current frame without the need to process the whole video at once. SORT in Deep SORT stands for Simple Online and Realtime Tracking which is an accurate description of this model. Now tracking assumes that we have an already detected an object of interest. For detection as you may already know is done with YOLOv4. Once we have detected the object, it is assigned an id and is tracked using Deep SORT. So in this application, we have applied deep sort for tracking of vehicles on a highway for traffic surveillance applications. If you would like to like to learn how we create this app then, click the link below to enroll in our YOLOv4 course. And, if you like this video, please give it a thumbs up, comment down below if you have any questions or any suggestions for future videos. Subscribe so you get notified when the next AI/AR tutorial is out. Feel free to share this video with any of your friends if think it maybe helpful. Okay, so earlier I mentioned that if you are interested in winning one of 20 free enrolments to any Augmented Startups courses, then all you have to do is like and comment on this video and sign up at the link below. Winners are announced every 3 months. You can comment on anything or provide suggests for upcoming video and ideas as I’ve mentioned earlier. So the full YOLOv4 course will be available as a comprehensive course on Augmentedstartups.com. I’m pretty excited for it because we are going to be covering a lot, From Execution of a pretrained model on images, video and webcam Labelling a new dataset in YOLOv4 format Creating custom dataset from other datasets but in YOLOv4 formati We then train our own custom detector natively on your PC, We also Implement on a MultiGPU Develop some real world application We also going to how you can create a nice PyQT user interface for object detection using YOLOv4. I really hope that you are excited by this course as I am, because if you are then you can enroll down below. Remember that I will not be publishing this course anywhere else and will be exclusive to AugmentedStartups.com 