 Okay so the other day I had an interview with Satya Mallick the CEO of OpenCV and he posed a challenge on me saying that it took him only 1 minutes to get the OAK kit up and running And now Im not sure if you notice but I was actually trying to deflect answering the question because I just got the kit, I’m ashamed to say it but it took me actually more than a minute Just look, just look at me trying to deflect the question OMG This is so embarrassing! Okay so in this video I’m going to explain what went wrong and then how I managed to redeem myself by solving the issue that I had and how you can install the OAK Kits without any hassle. For those who are interested in the comprehensive OpenCV AI Kit course there will be a link down below Also stay tune till the end to find out how you can win one of 10 free enrollments to the course Lastly Please hit the like, share and subscribe buttons, It will really help me out. Okay so the OAK kits are designed to be super easy to use straight out of the box and I must admit it what was quite easy compared to other kits So, then your next best guess is Ritz how the f*** did you f*** this up you must have been doing something silly! Well maybe… let me explain what went down So theoretically I could have done this in under a minute but because of my blunders I took a biiiiiiiit longer Only a little bit So being the windows fan boy that I am I connect the Kit via USB C to my PC and head over to the depth AI documentation page docs.luxonis.com I click here on Getting Started MegaAI which is the OAK 1 – Get Start I scroll down to Setup. Okay umm Step 1 – Check Step to Install the Python DepthAI API. Okay See our instructions. Now instead of clicking on Windows 10 like a normal person I’d thought I’d git clone the repo, which is under Instruction on Ubuntu that’s right Ubuntu…On Windows (Sigh!!) After everything installed and tried the quick test Python3 test.py and enter F*** Okay so lets rewind a bit to what a normal developer would have done Which is click Windows 10. Even though it says Currently Experimental I just type in really long git clone command git clone https://github.com/luxonis/depthai.git --branch refactor --single-branch Let it work its magic and then simply python depthai.py and press enter. Voila. We have object detection running at 30 FPS on this tiny device. No GPU required OMG this is so simple All I need was these two lines to install and get started with the kit Obviously assumes that that you already have python and git installed on you PC If you don’t then you will have to install the following command: python -m pip install -r requirements.txt This will ensure that you have all the dependencies to run the app So I hope these instructions helped you out Let me know in the comments how long this took you to get running Use a stop watch and no cheating right Im watching you For those who are interested in the comprehensive OpenCV AI Kit course there will be a link down below To stand a chance to win one of 10 enrollments please share this video on social media with the #augmentedstartups and sign up at the link below Winners announced every 3 months! Also Please hit the like, share and subscribe buttons, It will really help me out. Thank you and see you in the next video where we will exploring the various capabilities of the device 