 Thanks for tuning in this is The Sweet Cyclist and today we're going to be reviewing the Fabric Lumaray V2 front light. Here we have Fabric's latest Lumaray V2 front light. It's really unique product from Fabric that sandwiches between your Garmin mount and the computer to provide daytime light. Packing-wise it's really well done. As with other Fabric products you have really high contrast lettering on here and the light itself is prominently displayed. You can actually interact with it and look at the LED design. You have all the specs on here as well, so everything you need to know about the light is printed on here with illustrations of how it actually mounts. Let me go ahead and take it out of the box and we'll go over some of the specs. This is a $36 light and it is what I would call a be-seen light which is what it says on the packaging. It has up to 60 lumens of visibility compared to the 30 lumens from the previous version. It has a compatibility with both Garmin and Wahoo computers although with some Wahoo computers you need an additional adapter from Wahoo to fit the computer. They do recommend you still use the tether and definitely don't use incompatible devices even though they might fit to avoid having it potentially fall off. It has four different output modes and up to 7 hours of runtime which is pretty decent for most people's riding. It is micro USB rechargeable as well. Inside the box we have the basic packaging, a little cardboard container here and if I pop that open we should find our USB cable. We have the user manual, the USB cable. This is a really nice USB cable, just like the Lumasense which we've also reviewed here it has a woven design and is fairly short. You have the light itself, a really unique form factor and wraparound LED design. You have the Wahoo adapter. Now let's take a look at the weight of the Fabric Lumaray V2. The whole unit comes in at 44 grams. Now lets take a closer look at the fit and finish of the Lumaray V2 front light. It's a pretty unique product from Fabric that offers a daytime light solution without a bulk of an additional light. Designed to sandwich between a normal Garmin mount and then provide a Garmin mount for a computer on top. Now out of the box they do provide the Wahoo adapter, you can see there's two allen keys here you can take that out and then you have these nice orientation indicators here on the top and bottom. These three little divots ensures you place it correctly so you can swap it out for Wahoo. Note you would need an additional adapter for some Wahoo computers so be aware of that as that a additional adapter will push the computer a little bit higher to accommodate different designs. The entire body of the Fabric light is plastic so pretty light with the integrated rechargeable USB light. On top you have Fabric logo, so you can even run this by itself. You have this really nice cob LED design that wraps all the way around. Now if I hold the power button on for three seconds you'll see when it's on you get really nice side visibility even from high angles. The marketing says 270 degree side visibility which is really great. Now at 60 lumens this is fairly bright but not bright enough to ride with obviously it is definitely a 'be seen' light versus 'to see' light. So definitely ride with the additional light if you're riding in the dark. On the bottom you'll find the Garmin mount, all plastic with some hidden screws and the Fabric logo again. On the other side you the USB port so you can actually charge this while it's still on the bike so that's still accessible. It is a standard USB port here, it's not USB Type-C unfortunately so you still need a standard micro USB charging cable. Overall it feels really nicely built and the power button is really easy to toggle and pretty grippy. There are four different modes, it's a three-second hold which feels a little bit long and there's no mode memory which is unfortunate. Single click to cycle through and the long hold to turn off. You can see when I turn it on again, no mode memory means it all it turn on to the flash mode. You can also see the low battery status indicator here there's no more granular battery status but you can see once you're less than 20 percent it will show a little backlight here to indicate you need to charge it. This is easy to miss though as you really have to see it from a side angle. Now let's take a look at the Lumaray with a standard out front mount. Here I have the Magicshine TTA mount but you can use obviously any mount. I'll mount it on here, you can hear really nice click and feels really secure. It has a really nice profile here, it's fairly thin so depending on what kind of computer have you can you barely know it is there. Here I have a older Garmin computer, if I attach that you can see the Garmin computer here it's a little bit thicker than actual light. From the top view you can't barely notice the Fabric light itself. It has a nice form factor that really blends in from the side profile. You can see, nice and thin and it add the extra visibility without additional light. It also lets you do multitasking with your own front mount. Traditionally you have the top/bottom top where you could put a computer and a light. Now you can have a daytime light computer, GoPro or another light so it makes it really convenient to keep your handlebars clear and stack everything onto your own front mount. [Music] Now let's take a look at the light output from the Lumaray. What I really liked about this is the wraparound LED design and as you can see here in the high steady mode it has really good side visibility and more than bright enough to be seen. Now there are four different modes, there's high with 60 lumens and up to two hours of runtime. There is also a low steady mode for seven and a half hours of runtime as well as two different flash modes. You have disrupt which is an irregular flash for seven hours and then a normal flash which is just on/off for another seven hours of runtime. Now let's go over the pros and cons for the Lumaray V2. What I really like about the light is the sleek mounting design. It's really clever way to add light as it sandwiches between your Garmin mount and your computer. Also the wraparound LED design really has great side visibility, it's on up to 270 degrees. Also the fact that you get daytime visibility without bulk, you don't have to run an additional light or find another mounting point. What I don't like about the light is the lack of mode memory, it always turns on with flash mode regardless of which mode you turn it off on. That can be annoying if you don't want to use that mode each time. You also need an additional adapter for Wahoo Bolt and Roam computers which runs another $15 so you do have to account for that. Also it lacks a clear battery status checker as with most USB rechargeable lights, it only has a low battery status warning which is really easy to miss so especially with the lower runtimes of the Lumaray you do have to stay on top of charging it. Taking everything to account I would give the light an 8.6 out of ten. I think it's a really innovative be seen light that lets you multitask your out-in-front mount even more than a double-sided mount so you can get up to three different gadgets on one mount. Thanks for watching for review don't forget to like and subscribe if you want to see more content from us. You can visit our website at thesweetcyclists.comm as well as follow us on Instagram at @thesweetcyclists. This is The Sweet Cyclist reminding you to enjoy the ride! [Music] 