 (spraying sound) - Welcome to Mother Daughter projects, I'm Steph. - I'm Vicki and today we're in the craft room slash Lego room and we're accurate showing you a crafty DIY. - So we normally show you, you know, home improvement projects, how to get stuff done at your house. But since this whole pandemic has happened, mom has actually been working on making masks. She's made over - About 150. - And she's been giving them to friends and family and she's been donating them to local establishments in town. - Firefighters, Food bank. - So she's made a lot of mask and there's a lot of things she's learned through the process. So we wanna share those with you whether you're making your own mask, sewing one, making it a no sew one, whether you're buying a fabric mask. These are really good tips that you'll wanna know before getting into the fabric mask world. And our last tip, I think is probably the number one thing that we wanna share with you but we won't share with that until the very end - We will share it, - (laughing chearfuly) - Yeah, we will share that last tip. - All right so this is all mom she's been making the mask. (cheering happily) (laughing cheerfully) So I will be her assistance, let me know, what do you need mom? - I need you to get back behind the camera and really get my good side. - Okay, I can do that - And I do have a good side. - I can do that - Number one, no extra stitching and what I mean by that is, every single time you put a hole into the mask you creating another place for air to get in. So you need to get rid of your pins, you're not gonna be using pins, you're gonna be using clips and I like to use these commercial wonder clips. Or you could use small binder clips, you can use paper clips, although you don't need these giant ones. But just look around your home and see what you have. Keeping that in mind too, you want to use solid fabrics, not like a patchwork or something like that, because that's just lots and lots of extra holes. So keep it safe. Avoid putting extra holes in your mask. Number two, you wanna make it secure and you're gonna secure it ideally with elastic that may be hard to come by, so you may need some alternatives. You can use bias tape, or you can make your own bindings, which are actually fairly simple and I actually find it pretty relaxing. And I'm going to be making binding with two inch strips of fabric and this is going to fit into a bias tape maker and you can buy these online. Here are two different ones, the small one and the one I'm using. I'm using this one that creates a one inch wide bias tape. And to use that you're gonna fit one end of the fabric strip into the bias tape maker and you're gonna adjust it so you have the same amount of fabric on each side that folds over. You're going to need to be using a hot iron set on the cotton setting cause you are using 100% cotton fabrics and make sure it's really really steamy cause that steam helps to set the crease. So you're just gonna put your iron down and move the bias tape maker and press it flat. Once you've done that, let it cool just tiny bit. You're gonna fold it in half and that's creating your binding. And once that's done, you can add it to your mask like I'm doing here. If you want to make your mask adjustable. Here's a great tip, we're using a pony bead and that's what they're called, pony beads. And you just slip it on both sides of he tie whether you using elastic or t-shirt tie, or even bias tape and that will help the user to adjust it to their face size. Another alternative is to make t-shirt ties. You can use old t-shirts, or new t-shirts, just make sure they're washed first. And here you can see I'm using, this is actually a used t-shirt. I'm laying it out on my cutting surface and I'm actually cutting one inch strips. Now this creates a lot of lengths so be sure you clean up your area before you move on to something else. Otherwise, it's all gonna transfer to your nice clean mask. Number three, fabrics matter. According to CDC, you should be using a 100% quality woven cotton. So this is not the time to pull out your old polyester knits. You need to pre wash everything, I like to throw everything in the washer one time, wash on the highest setting possible and then put it in the dryer and dry it again on the highest setting possible. And you're doing that to remove any sizing or dirt and to shrink it down to size, cause you don't want that mask shrinking once it's washed. Number four, pleats please. I think pleats are one of the hardest things that the home store has found to do and I found a really simple way to do that. You have to use a hot iron, hot steamy iron, pressure you mask flats. Then you're going to turn it so the right sides are out and press that in half, and then fold in each edge and press that flat. Turn it to the right side and you're gonna use in a seam gauge and you're gonna make the first two plates half an inch deep. Make your first plate press that, make your second plate and press that. And this particular design needs to be four inches in length once it's finished. So that last plate I don't use that measure and I just move it smaller or larger to make sure that's four inches. Press it all really really well. And I'm using a wooden block and I'm gonna put that on there and that I will leave in place until the mask cools and that will actually set those plates. Also like to use some binder clips to clip those in place so makes it a little bit easier when I'm handling the mask. Number five, to filter or not to filter. Now we're talking about two different kinds of filters. One is a lining that you put inside the two pieces 100% cotton, or you can make a filter pocket where you would put in a disposable filter and take it out when it gets dirty. Now what I'm showing you here are different kinds of things I've used inside the mask. I've used things like flannel, muslin, I've used iron-on woven interfacing. All of those things, you can use as internal filters. Be sure to check with the CDC because that list of things that are good for inside filters are changing fairly rapidly. Number six, machine maintenance. And you probably wonder, why talk about machine maintenance? Well, right now, it may be a hard time to get your machine service. So, if you can do a few very minor cleaning things, you'll keep it running smoother. And I like to clean out the bobbin area of my machine. Every three bobbins and I will actually take all of this apart and use canned air and use a little brush and keep it cleaned out. And you'll be surprised what a difference that makes. Number seven, make it wearable. Now you need to know your audience when you're making these masks. If you're making it for yourself, you can do all the tailoring adjusting that you need. Most people are finding the ones with elastic around the ears are the easiest to take on and off. But sometimes they're not comfortable for wearing for a long period of time. And nurses have found that there really can be uncomfortable and they've asked for ear savers. Now this is an example of an ear saver, right here. And we have a video on making this on a Cricket maker. We have found that those that have ties are more comfortable and really fit tighter to the faces. So you just need to know yourself and the situation that you're going into. Whether you need one that's more easily to take off, or one that's more secure. Number eight, clean your iron. It's another maintenance tip. And I think a lot of people don't think about this until they are ironing and there's a really dirty spot on the fabric. The soleplate of your iron does get dirty. And here I'm using a commercial cleaner and you put a great big blob on a paper towel and you're just going to run your iron over that until all that dirt comes off. I would do this in a well ventilated area because it is sort of smelly, but it's a good idea to keep that soleplate of your iron clean. Number nine, mask hygiene. If you have a mask and you're not the one who made it, go ahead and wash it before you wear it first. Then you need to identify the right side and the wrong side of the mask especially if it's not used with two different fabrics. Like this one has the same fabric on the inside and outside. So we have labeled them with our names so we know which side is which. Now, if you're wearing a pleated mask like this one, you need to wear those plates down, always down. Now, put it on and you're gonna secure with the little metal nose piece and if that has shifted a little bit inside the mask you to just move it, bump it over so it's right in the middle. Once that mask is on, don't touch the front of that mask. Okay, well, you take off that mask, you need to just touch it only by the ears only and not touching the front because it could be contaminated. Now we'd like to keep zip bag in the car. We label them and put it in, drop it in and zip it up and it's all contained now. And be sure to use a hand sanitizer or wash your hands after handling your mask. And speaking of that, you need to also keep these mask washed. So just throw them in the washing machine. I like to put mine in a little mesh bag and just wash them and dry them and you're ready to go for the next time. - Can I take number 10 - 10, you take number 10, yes. - (laughing cheerful) And number 10, whatever you do wear a mask. It's vitally important that we all stay safe during this time. And by wearing a mask we are protecting other people. So as the CDC says when I wear a mask, I'm protecting someone else from getting the virus if I happen to have it, especially if I'm asymptomatic and don't know I haven't. So please wear a mask, whatever you can do, whether you make it, whether you buy it, whether you put a bandana on, do something to cover your face and keep your neighbors and friends safe. - And you know you can be cute with this too. - Yes - And you can even match your doggy. - Mom actually made me this new special little, cute little mask. And if you if you notice me and my friend here, we have a little matching, - You match Yeah, - matchy matchy going. - So there's no reason why you can't have fun with it too. - Exactly. We'll be putting a link to all the tutorials mom's been using in the link below. We'll also put some links to know so and CDC recommendations. So thanks for joining us today. And please don't forget to subscribe and click the bell to get notifications of all our new videos. Thanks for joining us. - Bye! - Bye! - Number three, fabric (laughing heartily) Scroll. Number three fabrics matter. 