 When it comes to sewing with large prints, you need to decide whether or not to match the design from seam to seam. Not matching can look unprofessional and sloppy. Matching prints look beautiful but can be time consuming. This tutorial shows you how to match your prints. First realize that you’ll need extra fabric to match prints so you have plenty of fabric to work with. The extra amount really depends on how large the print is. On your pattern pieces, mark seam allowances if they are not marked already and try to be as accurate as possible. Your fabric should be laid out in a single layer right side up. You’ll need to cut pattern pieces individually and pay attention to how you’re placing them. Place your first pattern piece down and use a rotary cutter to cut it out. The less you have to move the fabric or lift it up the better so a rotary cutter works best. In this case, I’m cutting out the Back right bodice first. On the fabric piece, press the seam allowance to the wrong side. Again, be as accurate as possible. You can do the seam allowances around the whole piece if you want, but for my example, I’ll just do the center back seam since that’s the section I’ll be matching first. Return the fabric piece to your laid out fabric on the table and match up the folded edge with the fabric so the print design lines up. If you need to put in a couple pins to hold it, that’s fine. Take the pattern piece that needs to match this seam. In this case, I’m using the same pattern piece but flipping it the wrong side so I can cut out the Back left bodice. I fold exactly on the seam allowance line on my pattern, butting up the edge with the folded edge of my previous cut piece. Make sure the top and bottom line up perfectly. Pin your pattern, being careful not to shift anything. After you finish pinning, remove the previous fabric piece. Then carefully unfold the seam allowance of the pattern and pin. Use your rotary cutter to cut out the new piece. On the new fabric piece, also iron your seam allowance to the wrong side. In my example I’m again doing the center back seam. Now it’s time to pin! First I pin through pieces at the creased seamline. Check it on the right side. If it matches, then do the next pin. Take your time and use as many pins as you need. Next I do a hand basting stitch along the seamline, checking the right side as I’m going to make sure the pattern design still aligns. After that, now you can sew a regular seam at your sewing machine. If you have a walking foot, you should use it just to make things easier. When you finish your seam, you should again check the right side and commend yourself for doing a good job in matching your print. Then you repeat the process for the next seams you need to match. We hope you enjoyed this tutorial. Please subscribe and click the bell icon to get notified of our new releases. Also, check out Professorpincushion.com to view our complete library with well over 450 sewing tutorials. If you would like to directly support us, you can join our YouTube Membership and earn some exclusive perks. Thanks for watching. 