 Oh!! It's a humbug! I lovee humbugs!! *Intro Music* Hello everyone! And welcome back to my channel. Before we get into the video make sure to click the subscribe button down below, and the bell icon so you never miss an upload. And today's video is actually inspired by Safia Nygaard, specifically her videos where she test subscription boxes, mainly for clothes, but I think she's dabbled in a few for food and stuff like that before. And I was watching her videos and it got me thinking. Do they make subscription boxes for kind of arts and crafts, and creative people? And apparently they do! Apparently they make subscription boxes for pretty much anything! Anything you can think of! You've got boxes for wine, alcohol, food, your pets, clothes, jewellery, furniture, the list goes on, and on, and on. So I've rounded up four subscription boxes which have kind of an arts and crafts theme to it. And then I've also got another subscription box which is kind of a wild card because it sounded really interesting, and still kind of creative. But mainly I just wanted to test it out for myself. And with these subscription boxes I'm either going to recommend them. Or I'm definitely not going to recommend them. So let's jump into our first box which is Papergang, and by the way I haven't opened a single one of these, although I've been dying to kind of sneak a peek. But I haven't so this is going to be a completely new experience for me as well. And Papergang was actually the first one that arrived, it actually arrived three days after I placed my order, roughly around three days. And it's also the cheapest out of the lot of them. So I spent thirteen pounds and ninety pence on this subscription box. And straight off I can tell you that this has the best packaging out of all the boxes we're going to see. I think it's really nice, and it says here that one pound per box sold goes towards protecting butterflies, moths, and our environment, which is lovely I think that's fantastic. And obviously this one is going to be catered more towards paper crafts and stuff like that, but we'll see, we'll see what it's like. Right so this is what's inside, we've got some butterfly paper clips, they're quite cute. I like them. Oh! And I've got iron-on patch, and if you saw my kind of other video where I kind of recreated a Gucci denim jacket, you'll know I love patches now. So that's exciting! Cool, that's great. Right and then this is obviously what else we've got inside. I will say that the packaging is really, really nice, it's very well presented. You've got a nice little butterfly pin there as well, that's really nice. Oh and by the way none of these are kind of sponsored or affiliated or anything like that! I've bought them all with my own money, no one sent me them for free, so it's not kind of... there's no bias or anything involved, this is my honest kind of review. I'm not gonna kiss anyone's arse, or anything like that. So you've got three A5 art prints. It's very butterfly themed obviously because they said on the packaging that the way they're for the environment, and looking after butterflies, and moths and stuff. You've got this one here which has kind of different butterflies on and the names, and then a gold butterfly there. They're really nice actually, I really like them. Got a little information booklet on butterfly comfp... conservation! A little calendar thing there. I've got 20% off my next order at jewellery box, even known I haven't ordered anything at jewellery box, but if I want to I've got a little discount code. And then I have a.. what is this? Ah so it's like a planner. Is that it? That's all that's in here, okay. I thought it was going to be a paper craft box, let me have a quick look on the website coz I might be wrong. All right okay, I'm lying, it's not about paper craft or anything like that. I'm feeding you false information! So every month you'll receive exclusive stationery and  desk accessories designed in collaboration with different artists, every four boxes sold we plant one tree. Okay, alright because I was expecting some sort of craft thing but that's really cool. I don't really use these much, I think they're very kind of old fashioned. I remember my dad used to use these in his office, and kind of like a weekly planner thing, but I really love the prints. I love the badge, the paper clips are really cool, the patch I love! I really like this for... how much is it? £13.90, I don't think it was too bad, it arrived really quick, the kind of aesthetics, the packaging, the design of everything was really nice. So yeah I think I would definitely recommend this one! Okay yeah next up we have Makerly, and I know for a fact this one is a craft box, and it was the second one to arrive it didn't take long at all. And this one costs 15 pounds, so not too bad. The packaging definitely isn't kind of as exciting as the Papergang one. It's, it's fine it's just a simple cardboard box and they've kind of got this sticker wrapped around it. But there doesn't seem to be as much kind of care as the last one. But it's not too bad, it's not horrible. So we have lots a little bits of confetti in there, great. We've got a little thank-you card there. The inside is well-presented actually. *Dramatic Music* Oh god it's an embroidery one! So this is basically, it's a kit where you can kind of make this. Yeah if you saw my video I just uploaded you'll know fine well that I'm not good at embroidery, or crochet, or anything like that. I tried a different craft box, which I was supposed to make a similar thing to this but a teddy bear, and I couldn't figure it out, so I'm not gonna.... attempt it. Because I just, I just don't, I just can't. It's just not gonna happen! But we're gonna go through it anyway and see what's inside. Aww this is really cute actually, yes you get some nice little ribbons, and buttons, and stuff there. A wheel full of pins which will come in handy to be fair. Some thread, some little kind of button things for the eyes, some more needles. This is the stuffin stuff, some felt, an embroidery hoop, and you've got some fabrics. Yeah pretty cool! Yeah I think this one would probably be tailored more towards kind of people who are really, really, good at crafts. And I think if it hadn't been for the fact that it was a textile one, I would have definitely given it a go and tried to create what's on the kind of image there, this kind of rabbit thing. But I think overall for 15 quid the stuff you actually get inside is pretty decent, it's got really like in-depth instruction booklet on how you make what it is you're supposed to be making, and I assume every month you'll be making something completely different, which is really cool I think it's a really nice idea, and the fact that you might kind of try something new or something you've never done before, which is really interesting. And for 15 quid, yeah I would definitely recommend it! Right so far so good, let's see if ScrawlrBox will continue the recommendation. And this one was actually the third one to arrive, and it cost 15 pounds, and this one is designed at kind of drawing and drawing tools, and stuff so I'm expecting a find kind of pens, pencils and that kind of stuff in this box. And obviously it's quite a small box, it's branded there, yeah it looks all right. It's nothing kind of fancy, or flash, or anything like that, but it's alright. I feel like there's a lot in here for such a small box. Right okay so we have a nice little kind of drawn book, a little sketch pad, which is really cool actually, seems pretty decent quality, the papers quite thick, yeah. Nice! Okay so you've got like a little artist here who it's just saying about coloring books, maybe this is what, this is about. She designs coloring books based on her artwork, she's called Sackuems. I don't know whether that's gonna focus, is it gonna focus? Yeah, there you go. Go follow her on YouTube, and Etsy, and all that kind of stuff. But yeah that's pretty cool, she's a 32 year old french artist. That's really nice, it's a nice little touch to a box, and then it gives you a little card telling you what's inside. So we have some colored pencils, and they seem pretty decent, decent quality, good brand, pretty happy with that! And we have two pencils here, we've got a blender, and a burnisher pencil which helps mix and smooth colors. So obviously someone who's interested in coloring in, and kind of graphics and stuff will know what they are, I've never heard of a blender pencil before. You've got like a fancy pencil here, which doesn't have a traditional wooden casing, and apparently that's like a good thing? It feels really nice actually, that's pretty cool. You've got a black pen, yeah cool. A giant pencil, got like a little sticker here, pencil sharpener, Oh and a sweet! I love sweets! Yeah that's pretty decent, to be fair it's actually what I expected it's probably a little more than I expected to be fair. It's got some nice little details, especially with the kind of artist print, and you get like coloring in version of it so you can try it yourself. It's got a... more of a personalized touch to it. Overall yeah I'm pretty happy with this, and for the price, 15 quid, I think you get a decent amount of materials, really good quality materials, and yeah I'm sold. I think obviously it's not catered towards me because I wouldn't get much use of it, because I don't do a lot of drawing, or kind of graphics, or anything like that. But if you do, do a lot of drawing, then this would be perfect for you. Would I recommend it? Yeah I think I would! I definitely would! I think it's a really good one. Yeah pretty pleased with that! Right next up we have SmartArt, and this was the most expensive one I bought, this ended up costing me 69.95 in dollars, which is pretty pricey. The previous three came from the UK, this one came from the states so it was a bit more expensive getting it here. But also they added an extra $10 on because I didn't want the continued subscription I just wanted a one-off purchase, which doesn't make any sense to me, but there you go! Packaging wise seems nice, nice branded box, purple, cool. I'm expecting in this to have some really decent kind of proper art materials, and.... it arrived, it's very small, it's very light ,and it was very expensive... so I'm very worried! But we'll soon find out. All right so we've got like a little competition here, where you can create your own piece of work, and upload it to them, and then you win a prize or something. The insides well presented actually. This is kind of where I have an issue, because I know how much art supplies are worth. Right so this is telling me how to use colouring in pencils, and it's got a step-by-step guide on how to color in. I have a grey sketch pad here which is fine, a pack of pens, a tin of pencils, and a pencil sharpener. For nearly $70, just under $70. Yeah, no! This was, this is bad. This is really bad! I feel like I've kind of been ripped off. I was expecting kind of some proper hardcore art materials, some like acrylic paints, some maybes watercolors, some... something juicy! This is a... it's essentially the ScrawlrBox but quite frankly I think the ScrawlrBox gave me a better presented, a better curated art box than this did. And the ScrawlrBox was nearly a quarter of the price of this box. No it's really disappointing actually. In fact let me price of how much all this is. Right so tallying up the kind of the materials here it came to 38 pound, and that's just kind of going on my first look obviously I haven't kind of done any research and really tried to get like a bargain. There more expensive than a thought, but still not... it's just not what I was expecting. I was expecting something, just a lot more exciting and a lot better, like I could have just bought these individually myself for the same price, probably a cheaper price actually. I'm just underwhelmed, I'm really underwhelmed with this one unfortunately. Thus one I was quite excited about, so it's a shame! Would I recommend smart art? No I wouldn't, not based on this box anyway. Right and last but not least we have the wild card of kind of the subscription boxes, and it's designer box. And this is actually from a French company, this one arrived last it was actually running ten days late, I got an email through saying they were running late for whatever reason. It's still quite expensive, it was 37 89 in euros. Basically what I know of is that in this box I should be getting a limited edition, kind of designer object. Which I think is really exciting, and other than that I haven't really... I didn't want to do too much research on any of them because I wanted to kind of be surprised about it. So we'll see what it's like inside. And the presentation, it's probably the most boring out of all of them. It's just a plain brown box with designer box stuck on it there, so you losing points on that one! So we have supermoon so this just seems to be a designer book telling you kind of stuff, but it's... it seems very interesting. Yeah cool. Great. Maybe's this is what I'm getting in it, supermoon. Right so this is what's inside, I'm very excited! The presentation wasn't fantastic in the box either, it wasn't particularly mind blowing, or anything like that. Oh no! I think it's broken.... Well it's broken the one I've got unfortunately, that's a real shame. Nevermind! What is it? So it's basically this, it's essentially a cloth hanging thing, it would go like that and then you could hang stuff there, and you can hang it over there. Nut obviously mine's broken in transit which is a shame, but this stuff kind of happens. For 37.89 this is bloody expensive! Is this how much it costs for one of them!? Right by the looks of things I can't find it to buy on the site, but just looking at it I can see kind of like a little railing which is 40 euros, so I think this is like a really expensive store. So it's probably not catered to kind of me, because I like cheap stuff. Yeah so like 39 quid for a bowl, a trinket bowl. That's very expensive. For like a limited edition object I was expecting it to be maybe signed or numbered.. let me double check that it is limited edition. Okay it doesn't say anything about it being limited edition. You apparently get an exclusive object which is worth 50 euros. So this would be worth 50 euros if you bought it in the store apparently. I'm not excited by that! I'm excited by the fact that I'm supporting kind of individuals and stuff because it's individual crafters and makers apparently on this store, you don't get kind of a lot for your money. So would I recommend the designer box? No I wouldn't! It's not my cup of tea and obviously mine was broken which was a real shame. And just overall if I'm paying that amount of money for a designer kind of object, I want the packaging, the box, everything else to feel special, and to feel exciting at the same time. But no out of all kind of five boxes, the one I was most excited about was probably the wild card designer box, but that was a big shame, it was a big disappointment. So was the smart box. The one that surprised me the most, and the one I would definitely recommend, is this Papergang one. I thought it was fantastic, and it was the cheapest one out of all of them, and it just felt a lot more kind of special, and it felt like a lot more thought had been put into it. And again none of this has kind of been sponsored, or anything like that I've bought more with my own money. But yes it was interesting to kind of see what was inside each of these boxes, and especially at different price points as well. It was quite surprising to see the more expensive boxes seem to offer less than what the cheaper boxes did. But let me know down in the comments below if you've got any experience with subscription boxes, or whether you've tried any of the subscription boxes that I've tried out today. And do I think I'll be buying another subscription box ever again? I might, maybe not kind of for creative things because it's very hit and miss. I could see myself kind of signing up for something! And I will say it is exciting getting them kind of through the door and not knowing what's inside, it's that kind of Christmas feeling, exciting like opening up a present like you have no idea what's inside. So I do get that and that is a kind of part of the subscription box feeling. And I think if you're wanting to purchase something, some kind of art materials, or craft materials, or a designer object. Just go to a shop and buy what you actually want to buy.... it makes so much more sense! But anyway that does it for today's video, hopefully you did enjoy, if you did make sure to give it a thumbs up! And again subscribe to the channel, and click the bell icon so you don't miss any of my other uploads. And I'll see you next week for a brand new video! Byeeee!! 