 Hi, it's Jen and Tammy back with a brand new series. We just finished up the Wooly Mug Rugs and people love them. That's what's in the display over here in the frame. For 12 months we brought projects and Tammy taught us some amazing stitches. Tammy: Lots of stitches, yeah. Jen: People love this and when it ended they were just saying we want more, we want more, and so our design team went to work and we've come out now with the Wooly Mug Mats. These are bigger and what I love about that is there's space for the appliqué and now there's space for the mug to fit off to the side. Cause on the Wooly Mug Mat-- or on the Rug -- I mean it was right over top of the appliqué And it didn't always sit super square, and maybe you didn't really want to put your mug there anyway. Here these are actually usable. Tammy: They are usable! Jen: And so cute! Super cute! So we're going be running through 12 months of these. Now we'll be bringing you -- This is the March project, I'll show you that straight on. Adorable little duck with his umbrella and. some cute hand embroidery to match, and of course, we have kits available for all of these throughout the program or you can just download that and use your own wool as you prefer. So Tammy will be showing us some amazing stitching a little bit later on, talking about a new book, but I'm gonna work you through some of the notions and products we'll be using throughout the program. You'll be seeing these coming and going depending on their relevancy for that month's project. Now just like we did before with the -- Mug Rug -- that's gonna be hard to keep straight.  Tammy: That's gonna be hard to keep straight, I know!  Jen: We always brought you the month before. So This is for March. So this is coming out in February so you have a whole month to stitch it. Tammy: Yes, exactly.  Jen: Now the kits for this program will include one kit. It's to make one mat. In the Mug Rug Series it made two but they were much smaller. So this is actually more than twice the size. So your kit will produce one mat. You'll have everything for the front and the back, of course all of the beautiful wool. Thread will be separate we'll be going into that just a little bit later. Let's just run through some of the quick notions -- Tammy: Okay, perfect! Jen then we're gonna jump right into the project after that because people just, at the end of the day, they want to see you stitch. Tammy: They just want to see it! That's right.  Jen: So let's jump into it. We'll definitely be using the Wafer. This is the Daylight Wafer 1. It's a perfect size for this project. It'll always work throughout the program. The mats are always going to be this size. We'll certainly be using our Panasonic iron this time. I love how it's just portable and it has a steam feature which we'll be using later on. Tammy: Which you turn on and off. Jen: Yep. We'll be using our Heat N Bond Lite. If you don't want to be using a fusible product associated with wool you don't have to do that, so you would of course just be using the layout diagram for your tracing and your layout, we'll get to that a little bit later on. I'll be using some Heat N Bond. We like that, I like to iron my pieces down. So when we're either stitching those down by hand or machine, again, we have the option now, if you do want to be able to stitch by machine, we've switched to a beautiful 12-weight Sulky thread that works both in machine and by hand so you have the option. So if you prefer that machine, we've got it all set up for you this time! Tammy: Go right ahead! That's right. Jen: You're gonna be a happy person! We like to go ahead and trace out our wool oval with the Freezer Paper. We really didn't want any fusible on the back of that. So we'll be using some Freezer Paper as well. We have a 14 inch square Wool Pressing Mat. This is a Shabby Fabrics Exclusive product. We have our Appliqué Pressing Sheet. I'll definitely be using that today because as we assemble certain aspects we want to make sure that the orientation is exactly as it's shown in the diagram and the Appliqué Pressing Sheet as you'll see makes that very feasible and doable and I just love using it both for wool and of course cotton appliqués. That's typically where you've used it but it works on wool too and some people don't know that. A variety of needles, I'm excited to introduce some new needles this year, I'll let that be for you to do [Tammy]! Of course marking tools will be needed as you would expect. Our Kai Scissors work beautifully with wool. [They're] super sharp, and they just go through that with no effort at all. And this time we'll be using our Clover Mini Wonder Clips. Just the way that we're working the project, it's a little bit of a bigger format. Tammy found the Mini Wonder Clips She really liked using those. Tammy: They're wonderful! Yes. Yes, that's for finishing in the end.  Jen: Yes. And I think another thing that we are introducing this year is the 10-inch square -- it's a design board! Lori Holt is just one of the most -- I love Lori's design. She's just an incredible designer and she has great notions! We found this, it's a Riley Blake Product. It's a 10-inch square. It's just a nice way to put your design down and it moves around so I can take it from here to there. Maybe you are gonna take it to the sewing machine. It's just a nice way to move your project around. It's lightweight. Tammy: I love these boards! We use them all the time. Jen: And it kind of has a batting on it. So it's tacky, things aren't falling off of there. So I love that. That's available as well. We're using a new stitching book. I won't reveal too much about that because that's something I know you're super excited about. Tammy: I am excited! Jen: I've gotten a chance to look through that and I'm also really excited about what's in there and just like before you have your Appliqué Thread and you have your Embellishing Thread. Of course, you're putting pieces down to the background, they need to be secured, but then in comes this beautiful hand embroidery and that's where all the specialty needles and thread here will come into play as well as the book. Let's jump into this project.  Tammy: Let's do it!  Jen: First thing you're gonna want of course is the download. You can either, if you're watching this on the Shabby Fabrics website, right beneath this video, there'll be the link. If you're watching from YouTube, there'll also be a link in the description box. Click that. You'll jump right to the Shabby Fabrics Homepage. Tt the very bottom there's a link that says Free Downloads. You'll be able to download this as well as of course all the the Mug Rugs and all of the other projects we have. Tammy: There's a lot of them out there.  Jen: There's a lot. So, you'll scroll all the way to the bottom, click Free Downloads. You're looking for the Wooly Mug Mat for March. There'll be two pages. You'll want to go ahead and download that. I'll be using the Fusible Webbing [Heat N Bond Lite]. So I'm going to be using this Tracing Diagram which is reversed for fusible appliqué. If you are not using the Heat N Bond Lite and you'll be using, say, Freezer Paper, you're not going to be reversing your shapes. You would just use the layout diagram for both your tracing and your layout. For now I'll put the Layout Diagram aside, and I'll definitely be using my Lightbox because it just helps me see everything through when I am tracing onto my Heat N Bond. So I'm gonna just get some of these products out of the way, Tammy if you can help me with that, and we'll just get a little more space. Thank you so much, and I'm just gonna put that there so we can keep looking at that cute little duck. And I'll slide that over just a touch. Now one of the things I love about this Lightbox, and you and I noticed this, is it has these different settings where you can get the brightness where you want it. It can come and go and what I love about it is when you turn it off and you turn it back on it remembers where you were.  Tammy: It does, how does it do that? Jen: Uh, it's a super smart Lightbox!  Tammy: It's super smart! I don't know how it does that. Jen: Now, of course when you're gonna trace onto a fusible product, you know You're gonna be heating it up. I have made the very blond mistake -- -- This is True Confessions of a Quilter right here! -- -- of tracing with the Frixion Pen, which of course with heat is bye-bye. Tammy: It erases.  Jen: Yes. I've done this, I'm embarrassed to admit it, more than once.  Tammy: I've done it once, yeah. Jen: So we're gonna use the Micron Pen. It's a permanent marker. So it's great for tracing your shapes onto the paper side of your fusible webbing. As you'd expect, you're just going to go ahead and trace all around your shapes. I'll just go quick, and when you are -- once everything is all traced out, and you might want to use an inexpensive --Thank you, Tammy -- an inexpensive pair of scissors to cut it out or the Kai's, you know, I really have found they don't get dull. Tammy: I think they're fine. I use Kai's to cut my fusible all the time. Jen: So whenever you are cutting out, don't cut out on the line yet. Just cut out around that roughly, around the edge of that, you know wool is expensive. So I do get fairly close to the line, especially with wool. I'm a little more liberal if it's cotton fabric, but when it's wool, I'm getting pretty close to that because I just don't want to waste -- I just don't want to waste wool. It's too precious, it's very expensive, especially hand-dyed wool, so that's what I do is basically, you roughly cut around, and you will be ironing this to what is typically the backside. Now sometimes with wool I find most the time I can't tell the difference. Tammy: A lot of times there isn't one. Jen: Yeah, it's rare, isn't it? There are some wools, we've found a couple of them, that have a very different --they almost present two sides. So whatever side you don't want to be showing, that's the side you'll iron this to. Now we've gone ahead and did that and cut our shapes out. That's when you will be cutting on the line. Once it's ironed to the back of your wool, that's when you're going to be being very precise with your Kai Scissors and cutting everything else -- cutting everything out precisely. We've done that, as I mentioned. And I've gone ahead and preassembled a couple of the elements. We've got the umbrella and the Crocus and the leaf, but I'm going to show you how to use the Appliqué Pressing Sheet, and, because you can imagine, once you get all this cut out and you want to apply this to your actual oval, that's a very specific orientation. It could be very difficult to do visually. You can't see through that no matter where the Lightbox or not, when I bring this wool into play, you're not going to be able to see the design. Tammy: No. You can't see through the black. Jen: Now before I jump into actually assembling that, of course, we're going to be cutting out two ovals, and that's where we decided that we just didn't want the bulk of fusible webbing between those two layers and that's where we used -- Tammy: It's very pliable. I wanted it more pliable and soft. I didn't want it stiff, which fusible sometimes will make things stiff. So we wanted to keep it soft. Jen: So we went ahead and just cut out the oval. The shiny side is what, of course, you'll be ironing to your wool and what I love about, you know what I'm going to say about this brand, you know, you can go to the grocery store and I did in the very beginning I bought -- it's in the, kind of where the saran wrap -- Tammy: The canning stuff too. The canning supplies... Jen: Yep. You buy this big old box that you couldn't use in a lifetime.  Tammy: Yep, I've got one! Jen: And what I've found is it's functional for certain things, but for appliqué, it's too flimsy. So I started ironing two of those layers together, even sometimes three, and you then you get little bubbles in between. What I love about this Freezer Paper, I think it's the CutRite Freezer Paper, right?  Tammy: It's CutRite Freezer Paper, it's heavy-duty freezer paper.  Jen: You can just hear how heavy it is. And once we iron this down, what I love about this is, unlike fusible webbing where it, once you iron it down, that's it. It's down forever. It's a one-time use. What I love about freezer paper, especially this brand is, once I cut this out, this oval, all I have to do is peel this away and I simply use it again. So it's -- It is so sturdy. I don't think that went down completely. I will demonstrate that again shortly, but the point is is the CutRite Freezer Paper, you don't have to trace two of these for each project. Tammy: No you don't. You just need to do one. Jen: And this will take you through several months.  Tammy: It will take you for -- it will. Jen: So, I'm letting this heat up just a little bit more, I think that cooled down, but I want, I just want you to see how you really don't need to be tracing well, two of these for each one. It's simply not necessary. While that's heating up, Let's talk about how to use the Appliqué Pressing Sheet. I know that may be new to some people, and once I was exposed to it, I haven't gone back.  Tammy: No, we love it. Jen: I love it, because I used to kind of, I used to try to look at my Layout Diagram, And I've got all my pieces cut out, I got them on my [design board], and then I'm trying to move them and try to understand it, I'd even get my measuring going, trying to mark certain things, to figure out the orientation. There's just a better way to do it. Let's iron that down right now, I bet that's hot enough, just to demonstrate how nice and clean that comes off. Now here's a question for you, Tammy. Cause, somebody might ask us. Would you double that up and cut that double?  Tammy: No. I wouldn't, because the layers are gonna move.They're gonna move, so you're never gonna have two perfect layers if you cut them two layers at a time. Always take the time just to cut them individually. Jen: Okay, because I know you cut out these bases and I wanted to ask you how you did it. Tammy: We cut 24 individual bases.  Jen: Okay, gotcha. And just go ahead and peel that off and you can just see how it's very ready to be ironed down again and it's -- Tammy: See how some of the fibers stuck to it? and now you can easily use it again and again.  Jen: Exactly, so let's go ahead and put that aside for now, but I just wanted to show you how that -- and I use that for regular appliqué too, so where I'm turning the edges around it's sturdy and fantastic. Alright, we've got our little duck here, and we have our Layout Diagram, so we're gonna place that down and this is where the Appliqué Pressing Sheet comes into play. Now one of the things I want to point out to you about our Layout Diagrams is they're numbered. And Tammy tell us, why? Why do we number these things? Why do we take the time? Because I've noticed a lot of other people's appliqué patterns don't have that. And we have -- I have inadvertently put the wrong layer down. Tammy: You do and then you realize, wait a minute, that needed to go under all these other layers. So always find number one. Start with number one. Your little duck bill is number one. He's gonna go first. Jen: Okay, so let's go with that one. So, how are we gonna work this out? We've got our Appliqué Pressing Sheet, we know we can't put our iron on this thing. Tammy: Do not iron on that. That's correct. Jen: So this is kind of just, we're going to make it -- we're going to actually transition back and forth between our wool -- let me move those out of the way for now -- and I'm just gonna put that right up there. So let's get a little bit oriented and we're gonna -- I'll show you how we're gonna manage this. So once we know -- you said piece number one... Tammy: Piece number one is your duck bill. Yeah, and then you need a wing is number two. Jen: Number two. Tammy: Yeah, and it shows a dotted line is where one shape lays under another.  Jen: Yep That's a great point. Tammy: So you've got your dotted line there. Yep. Perfect And now he needs feet.  Jen: He needs some feet. Yeah, a duck isn't much of a duck without some feet. Okay Tammy: Beautiful. Jen: Four Tammy: I love that. Now his body. Jen: And if at any point, you're like, I've got too many pieces down, I feel like I want to iron down what I have right now, that's no problem. All you have to do Is slide this over, and that's why I like to have them usually butted right up to each other, and you just can iron. Just straight down. Tammy: Straight down. Jen: And I just let it sit there. I don't know. What do you think? It's a little bit longer with wool... Tammy: It's a little bit longer. Five to seven seconds should be about enough, I think. Jen: The other thing I like to do with when I'm dealing with the Appliqué Pressing Sheet, When I'm trying to create something like this, is I typically have it on a hotter setting with wool. Mm-hmm. Tammy: Not on the wool setting. We need it on Cotton. It's always on the Cotton High Setting. Jen: Because I want that glue to release to this Appliqué Pressing Sheet. It's very important that it does and it's not in the mid stage. It's not in the transition. It's all the way through and I'm gonna keep that iron heating up. So let's move that back over. Tammy: Show them how this stuck now. You see how it stuck to the Appliqué Pressing Sheet. It's not going anywhere. That's good. Jen: Not going anywhere. Not yet anyway. Tammy: Not until we want it off there at least.  Jen: So now we can just line that right back up. Now there was no -- we certainly could have kept laying pieces down. There's no reason you need to kind of go back and forth and iron each one down as you go, but if you at some point you're like, ah, there's just too much or maybe pieces are starting to shift, whenever you start feeling uncomfortable, iron it down. So let's get that re-oriented, that's the good part about kind of waiting, is then you don't have to re-orient. Okay, looks like his body's next, right Tammy, is that what I'm seeing? Tammy: Yep. That's correct. Jen: Okay. And now, now it becomes invisible. Now I can either try to brighten up my screen underneath, and maybe see it more, and that's the beauty of this getting a little bit brighter, and I can see it now. You see how that made it visible? Tammy: So your collar is next, Jen.  Jen: Okay, oh, yep! That's right, because that piece is number six. I've got to decide which side is my glue side. I've done that one too. Oh geeze! This is true confessions! Tammy: Then it goes to the iron! Jen: Then I have to buy iron cleaner. Jen: We're only human. These mistakes happen to us too, and we do this for a living! We still make mistakes. Okay, that wing went like that didn't it? Let's see, where's our umbrella happening? You know what, our umbrella handle's --  Tammy: It goes down next. Number seven is your umbrella. Jen: It does. So I'll tell you what I'm going to do Let's just iron this down right here, I've got enough going on. Okay, and of course the umbrella and the Crocus, same idea. You're just following your whatever piece is down first or the lowest number, I should say. The handle went, number 10, number 11 made up the umbrella, and then I made the flower ahead of time, just to save a little bit of time on camera, so let's move that back now Tammy: That is cute. Jen: He's a cute, cute little duck. See that little handle? I can see that right now because my Lightbox is brought up to it's brightest stage. Now that wing will go on. Tamy: There you go.  Jen: And then we might as well just put that flower down. Now what we could do, because it's just a touch of that and I might not want to really iron this down -- here's the thing I know. Releasing wool from the Appliqué Pressing Sheet is more difficult than cotton fabric. Absolutely. Undeniable. Sometimes you get it hanging on. I just heat it up more until the glue completely transfers to this and [is] cooled. That is so important. I even have put it in the refrigerator before. Makes it cold and it releases better. I'm actually not going to put that down there because, you realize how much of this is not, I'm not gonna go there. That one I'm gonna actually do just looking at.  Tammy: Just looking at it, okay! Jen: The other option is you only heat up this portion. And you kind of leave this exposed. But for now, I'm most comfortable just putting that aside. I don't want to have to peel all that away. All right. Let's move that over. And let's iron that down. We should name this duck. Is this a girl duck? Tammy: We should! He's a cute duck! Jen: Is this a boy? Tammy: Is it a boy duck or a girl duck, I don't know. Super cute. Jen: So we're gonna iron that down all the way. And as I said, I've learned when I get impatient and I start peeling it off, it starts, it's still, it's not quite stuck, so we're gonna let that cool down. Now before I peel that off, because I do want to let that cool down completely, Tammy, talk to us a little bit while that's cooling down, before we bring it over to the background, talk to us a little bit more about, you know your decision to switch to the 12-eight cotton and this book, cause I know that was really something we talked about, we got feedback from people, Tammy: We did. You, viewers, were giving us feedback about the thread. One of the very first questions we had when we introduced a wool thread was "can I put that in my sewing machine?" and the answer was no. That thread was not sturdy enough. It wasn't strong enough. You can actually take it and break that thread in your hands. So we made the decision this year to go to a stronger thread. I'm using a Sulky 12-weight cotton thread. I love this thread. I use this thread a lot. Jen: I love the versatility. Tammy: This thread is amazing. We are stitching with it, hand stitching, it's beautiful, or you can sew with it by machine. If you choose to do it by machine, you're gonna want to use a size 100 needle, and so we recommend a Super Non-Stick Needle. The nonstick needles just glide through all that layers of fusible and wool. This is an amazing needle right here. Yep, and the 12-weight cotton will go right into it. Jen: Now, I know there's a 100-size needle that's not the super nonstick. This is kind of meant for gliding through -- Tammy: This is meant for going through all the fusible.  Jen: That's so good. Tammy: So then it doesn't -- that fusible will not stick to your needle Jen: What would people put in the Bobbin with this. Tammy: They're Teflon coated. I would just use regular bobbin thread or just a 50-weight cotton. Jen: Nice! Either in a coordinating color or a neutral. But that bobbin thread will still stay on the bottom so it doesn't have to coordinate? Tammy: Correct, you're not gonna see it. You're not gonna see it. Yeah. Jen; So we're getting close. I think we're close. So what I've learned about with Appliqué Pressing Sheets, is I kind of, It's, you don't just rip it. Tammy: It's not like a band-aid?!  Jen: There's a finesse to this and you kind of start to peel it away. You see that? And sometimes you have a little bit of residue left over or sometimes you might need to reheat a section, but you, especially these little areas, like his little duck bill, you gotta be careful there, cute little guy. And just like the feet, you're gonna kind of start out here and work our way back, and now, when we move this to our oval, everything is really oriented and ready to go, versus you trying to take a guess. Now the eye is one thing that we'll -- once we would iron that down -- Tammy: We could stick him down. Jen: Sure. You can just, you would just position that. This is where you're going to, you know, you can lay this like this and I kind of just fold it back and I'm looking. Okay his foot's about right there, the tip of the umbrella's right there, you can even poke a needle down there and kind of line it up if that was very important to you, and then you're just gonna visually determine where you want to have your flower and put your eye on, iron everything down. We've done that ahead of time, and now Tammy this is really where you're gonna spring into action. This is, this is what y'all been waiting for.  Tammy: Here we go!  Jen: We are now at the stage where you're gonna show us, once we have this cute little duck and flower and umbrella ironed down, ready to go, take us how -- from here on what we do we do now? Tammy: So the first thing I'm gonna do Jen is you lightly tack this down. I'm gonna turn this upside down on our Wool Pressing Mat and we are gonna really press this down with steam. Jen: Whoa.  Tammy: Oh, yeah. Jen: Don't be afraid to use some steam. Tammy: No, we're gonna use a lot of steam on this thing. I want that fusible to come out of the wool, and I want it to come on to the background now, and I want this whole thing to be fused down. Not just lightly tacked. Isn't that cool? I know you're gonna get a facial, too, as we stand here. Jen: I am! Tammy: I know, I love that. Okay. We're good. All right.  Jen: This is such a cool iron that way. And you can turn it off. Tammy: I love that iron. I love it. Exactly. So I did that on our appliqué -- or on our Wool Pressing Mat. So the wool is still -- it's still dimensional. Jen: It's like lofted. Tammy: Yes, it's still dimensional. It's not smashed down flat like it would be on an ironing board. Jen: Like it is on my ironing board! Tammy: It is on your ironing board, exactly, but see now, it's on here. It's not coming off, the steam is amazing on here.  Jen: So the moral of the story here is: don't be afraid to use some steam. 'Cause when I learned to quilt, steam was a bad word. Tammy: I love steam. Jen: And this isn't quilting, but you're still sewing, and any time, I've just been told, always keep that steam setting off.  Tammy: Well with Heat N Bond, you want to keep, when you're using that product in the beginning, the way you did it with your iron, no steam was correct. That is correct. We just use steam at the very end. Just when you are ready just to beat the boss of your wool and put that down forever, use a little bit of steam. Don't be afraid to get in there. Alright. On our mat. So now I'm gonna start stitching and I'm gonna show you a Whip Stitch. A Whip Stitch is not in our book, but I have cotton thread here. This is from Sulky. Alright. And this is a 22 Chenille Needle is what I'm using. That's in this tube right here. You get 12 needles.  Jen: Oh, this is a deal. These are super affordable. Both of these are. Tammy: They're both affordable. They really are. Okay, so I'm just going to come from the back. I have a small knot in there. I'm gonna come from the back and I am just gonna take a couple of little Whip Stitches. I just want to tack my edges down. I'm gonna go right down and come right back up. All in one motion, so I'm always staying on top of my wool. I'm not doing the stab and stitch method. Right? I'm not putting -- yeah, Jen likes the stab and stitch method. This is -- so it goes down like this and now I'm taking yet another -- and then you have to remember where was I? Where do I come up at? And bring it back up. Instead, you're just going to go down right next your appliqué and come right up ahead of it. It's a much faster and you always know where you are, but you can see my stitches are virtually disappearing. I can't see my stitches on that wool. They're gone. Jen: We've perfectly coordinated those threads to match the wool. Tammy: That's correct. Okay, So I would go through and Whip Stitch this entire thing down. Okay? All right. So once we have him all tacked down then we get to play with the other stitches. Did we have Kai Scissors somewhere? Jen: We sure do. Yep.  Tammy: Fabulous. Thank you. I'm gonna go ahead and cut that Okay. So to embellish this lovely little guy we're gonna use the Embellishing Thread Set and we do have two thread sets available, so you'll be able to purchase just the Sulky set [appliqué set] or just this set [embellishing set] or you could purchase them both. We have two separate thread sets this time. Before we combined them all together into one. So here I'm breaking them apart. These are the fun threads. Okay. Jen: I like them all. But I know what you mean. Tammy: I know, I love them all. Jen: These are not to be invisible. And these are meant to be visible.  Tammy: To be seen. That's correct. So we are gonna use, with these threads, they're a little bit heavier. This is size 8 Perle Cotton. So we are gonna use a Embellishing needle is what this is. Jen: These are good and long. Tammy: They are longer. Jen: Is this also a dozen? Yes! That's a lot of needles! Tammy: Yes, that's a lot of needles, isn't it? Here's one right here. So they are longer and the eye is bigger and I love to use my Clover Embroidery Needle Threader. I love this thing, it goes right through. It's not one of those little wimpy ones with the little wire that break. I hate that. Here we go. Jen: Look at that variegated thread! Oh how fun is that?! Tammy: It just makes fun raindrops! Jen: Well look at how these raindrops -- That's all the same thread.  Tammy: That's right, it's all the same thread. Jen: But the variegation makes it look like you've used three different threads. Tammy: Exactly. Jen: Same with the puddle! That's so fun. Tammy: Alright, so we're gonna put our thread through and I'm just gonna work this right back through just like that. Okay, and we're ready to go. Alright. Here we go. Alright, so I'm gonna show you, first of all, how to do a Double Lazy Daisy. Jen: And for these lazy daisies, you just kind of eyeballed it, you didn't mark it on there, right? Tammy: I did not mark that on there. The other thing is I want to tell you about the book. This book is amazing. This is an Embroidery and Crazy Quilt Stitch Tool. It's a mouthful. Jen: It reminds me of the recipe books that flip.  Tammy: That flip, yep. I like that! It's nice. It stands upright. It's always there. I I listened to you, viewers. I had a lot of questions right after we started this series, "how do I do this? I'm left-handed." Well, Jen had a suggestion you can watch the video with a mirror. That's difficult to do. It's very difficult to do. Jen: And awkward Tammy: To try to and understand how to do that. So I didn't have a solution. So we listened to you! In this book, when you go to the stitches, you have a left-handed stitch guide and a right-handed stitch guide.  Jen: That's amazing. Tammy: Isn't that amazing? Jen: It's, I think, really considerate.  Tammy: It is very considerate. I agree. Yes. So that's a great feature of this book. I love that.  Jen: I love how it stands up so when you are stitching something and you want to have that constant reference to it, it's right there. It's right there to just glance up at. I really -- and how it just stands on its own. How many pages are in this incredible book by the way?  Tammy: There's a lot because it's on both sides.  Jen: Oh my gosh. Almost 200 pages. Amazing. Okay. Tammy: There's a lot. It's also portable. I like it because it's portable, it folds up, and it's easy to tuck into my bag and take with me. I travel a lot with my wool projects.  Jen: I know you do!  Tammy: Whenever we go on a trip or go on a road trip, I take all my wool with me and that's where it goes. This is very nice and portable and I like that. Okay. Alright, so this is the Double Lazy Daisy. We will always tell you the pages that you're going to find your stitches in the book on your download. So if you don't have you download printed yet, you can do that now, and you will see the Double Lazy Daisy is on page 115 in this book. Alright, so I'm just gonna eyeball this, and I'm gonna put one little raindrop over here by the Crocus. I'm gonna come up, I'm gonna loop my thread around, well, we're gonna try to loop it around, there we go, I'm gonna go right back down and make just a little Lazy Daisy stitch like this. I'm actually going to tie that off now, or just go down and make your Lazy Daisy, right? So you're tacking your little point, you're gonna come right up again, exactly where you were before. This time when I make my loop I put my loop around my stitch that I already have on there. There we go. I'm gonna come up again, right here, -- No, I'm gonna go down. I'm sorry. I'm gonna go down and then come up. Like wait a minute. I already came up.  Jen: So you're coming up in that same spot? Tammy: Exactly. You're gonna come up just ahead of your --where you tacked it. So now when I take this Lazy Daisy -- I've got thread on me here --  Jen: Oh, you're doing a Lazy Daisy on top on top of a Lazy Daisy! Tammy: Yeah. It's just a little double stitch there. I like that a lot.  Jen: It just makes a little more dense, more visible.  Tammy: Yeah, little raindrop. We like that. Okay. Alright, so now let's talk to them about marking on here. This is always a challenge with quilters. I know whenever I do wool I'm always nervous about marking on my wool. Well, when I mark on -- we can go ahead and use the white one. Let's do the puddle. So I like this white marking pencil. You've used this a little bit, this marker. We like these. They really are nice. They are erasable. So you can mark on your wool. I have found they come off with an iron or they come off with water. Either way. Okay, I love this. Jen: And the marking isn't apparent immediately. It takes a second or two. You're like, it's not working!  Tammy: I know it, it takes a minute. It really does it takes a minute to show up. So we just simply, I just started tracing this, and you can see it didn't show up yet, just give it a second. Jen: And it might be difficult to see with the overhead camera, we'll try to get in there with our close-up so you can see how it does appear, just a little bit of a delay that is built into the product. But what I love about it rather than using chalk, Tammy, is chalk tends to smear.  Tammy: Chalk comes off. I never have good luck with chalk. Jen: And see how she just kind of goes over it and now she has a very profound line where she -- see it gets a little more intense. Tammy: Now you can see it. Yeah. Yeah.  Jen: It's an incredible product. I've always struggled with marking tools on black. You've got -- You've got an ocean of them when you're marking a light background, but on a dark background it's very limited. Tammy: So what I did on this is I just did a regular Back Stitch. So [for] a Back Stitch, I'm gonna come up a little bit ahead of my little ducky foot, and I'm just gonna now take a stitch back, and then take my needle and come forward ahead of where I came out so when this goes in it just lays right in there.  Jen: I sure love how this thread has a quick variegation change. Tammy: It does doesn't it? Jen: I just noticed that about that. If you've used any kind of variegated thread, before you might have had a long variegation where it's 12 inches before a change. Tammy: So your whole puddle is gonna be blue and then a little part of it is green, where on here, it went green to blue like every one of these was green to blue. I do like that. Jen: It's a quick change up, also a random variegation so it's not on the same rhythm. So if you're doing a repetitive pattern, you're not seeing a repeat. It changes up.  Tammy: Exactly. It does change up. I love that. So your Back Stitch is on page 26.  Jen: Oh, it looks like 36 on that one. Tammy: Uh, Button Hole Is 36. Okay? Alright, and and we just have a regular one little Lazy Daisy for his little splash. This is so cute. And then the flowers are exactly the same way, Jen. The flowers are exactly the same way. The flowers are just little Lazy Daisies and a Back Stitch between them. I just did the same stitch So you're not trying to do different stitches.  Jen: And then maybe you can give them you know over here the idea of how to mark that line. Tammy: Yeah, we can do that! Jen: Because I think that's the thing that I always want to be able to bring you is all those things that we struggle with as quilters, crafters, makers, whatever you want to call yourself, marking on black has always been challenging. Marking on wool! Cause you can't see through with any Lightbox. Tammy: Marking itself is challenging, exactly. Okay, so one thing we were talking about this, if you're not comfortable eyeballing this, you can take your pattern, actually, we put our pattern on top. We laid our pattern on top and we took our needle -- I'm trying to just pick one up here -- Alright, and we actually poked a hole through in the middle of all of these flowers just like this. Okay, because all I need to do a Lazy Daisy stitch is my center point. Right? They all build off of that one center point. That's all I need is just my center point. And then I took my white pencil, my white marker, and we just line this up right here. Jen: And at this point if somebody found that difficult, they could actually cut this oval out so it's the same footprint. Tammy: Absolutely. Jen: It's a free download, you can download it again if you want to. Tammy: Cut it out. That's right, that's exactly right. And I'm just gonna put my pin right here. I'm just gonna go right through that hole. Jen; You can either just eyeball it or these are just some ideas of other ways to approach how to mark where you want your stitches. Tammy: I know it, because it is a difficult thing to do on black wool. See? There's our dots right there. So I have my marks. Let it dry a little bit maybe you can see them better. Yes, right here! Jen: And then would you just freehand that wiggle for the line? Tammy: I would. I put the flowers on first, then you can kind of freehand where your line is gonna go to connect them. Yes. Cause then you're gonna go between your petals, otherwise, you don't know where your petals are gonna land, right?  Jen: I see. So you did put those down first. Tammy: I put my petals all on first, then I came back and I just put my line right in between my petals, just a little soft curve. Just like that. Jen: So we know how to do Lazy Daisy, You've done it for us, and the Back Stitch. Now, I know you got something special for us. Tammy: I've got one more! One more! I have a Stem Stitch. Alright, and for that I'm gonna use a Frixion Pen because a Frixion Pen shows up just fine on here and I'm just gonna make a mark just like this. I'm gonna put a line on there and I'm gonna take my green thread, the Stem Stitch is in my book and it is on page 164. [For a[ Stem Stitch, I'm gonna come up. This stitch is worked a little bit differently. My needle will come up right where I want it here, right on my line. Okay and I'm gonna leave my thread to the bottom. It always curves around on the bottom. I always keep my thread to the bottom. So I'm gonna come in and I'm just gonna take a stitch about a quarter-inch and I'm gonna go back towards my thread an eighth-of-an-inch. Jen: Okay, so you're not coming all the way back. About half the distance? Tammy: About half way. Yep. And I make my loop. See my loop? Now, I'm gonna take my thread again to the bottom and go out about a quarter-of-an-inch. Now I'm coming about an eighth-of-an-inch. That's about an eighth-of-an-inch. Now I'm coming back right where that thread was before, but I always keep my loop to the bottom and it just leaves those stitches right on top of each other. I love that stitch! So then it's just laying them right down. I love that.  Jen: It has a nice twisting. Visually, well, it is twisting isn't it? Tammy: It is, it is kind of twisting the thread. Because it's looping down and then twisting back around and the other one's coming up from underneath of it. Jen: That's a cool stitch.  Tammy: That is a cool stitch. I like that. You get the variegation in there. It's just fun. Jen: Wow, this is gonna be a super fun series. Tammy: Isn't this a fun project? I think so too. So the last thing I want to show you guys is now what do you do when you have it completely done? You're ready to put it together. Okay. Now we're gonna do what I call a Buttonhole Stitch. A Buttonhole Stitch -- let's do it with pink thread -- Jen: -- so we can see it.  Tammy: So we can see it. Jen: Obviously you're going to be using black Tammy: Exactly. Now, Tammy, talk to us a little bit about the black, because we know in this series, we're gonna be using the black every time around the perimeter. Tammy: One spool is way enough. I have measured it, we have done this, it is way enough thread for one spool of black thread. If you find that you are short on black thread, let's say you're making several for gifts or you want more, we do sell these spools individually. So feel free to pick up additional spools, we have that. We've covered ya. Okay, so we're gonna put it together like this. I se my Mini Wonder Clips. Now if you wanted to, you could put fusible in here and fuse this down, but I think it'd just be really thick and I just -- it's not gonna be pliable. So instead, I'm gonna use my little Mini Wonder Clips. These things are so cute. Jen: They're fun. I like the different colors.  Tammy: They just hold this project together so nicely exactly where I want it. I tend to not take pins when I travel because I'm always losing them in the car and then my husband yells at me. Because now there's pins in the car and he doesn't know where they are. Yeah. I know somebody's gonna sit on them, probably me. Okay, here we go Okay So I'm gonna come up I'm actually, I'm going to start in the middle and take a stitch so that I can bury my knot in the middle. Okay, I'm gonna work this stitch this direction, okay, clockwise. Clockwise. So your stitch is up. Your thread is up. I'm gonna come over a quarter-of-an-inch. Do not try -- you know, you're stitching my black thread so your stitches are not going to be that visible like mine are now visible, but when you're doing this Blanket Stitch, I just want you to stitch naturally and you you will pick up a natural stitch. Everybody stitches just a little bit different.  Jen: I know what you mean. It's like a signature. Tammy: It is. You will find that your stitch will become much easier and you might not fall into a natural rhythm until you get about half way around but your stitches, you don't have to measure every stitch, you don't have to do that. It just naturally happens.  Jen: Oh, that's so cute! Gosh, it's cute in the pink thread Tammy! We've been using the pink so you can see it, but gosh, that's pretty. Tammy: Exactly, I know! I should have just used pink. It is cute. There we go. Blanket Stitch. Jen: Wow. That's adorable. This is gonna be a fun series.  Tammy: This is gonna be a lot of fun. We're excited. Jen: I'm just so happy, you know that we're doing another one and we get to learn more stitches, and for a left-handed audience, there's something -- a new resource for them. So definitely if you haven't already subscribed to our YouTube channel, this is a great chance to do this. This is gonna be 12 amazing projects. Tammy's gonna be showcasing a lot of amazing stitches out of the book. And just join us because you don't want to miss a video, for sure. So we'll see you next time! 