 [  ] Miles O’Brien: This is a “shape memory polymer” - heat it up and it curls in on itself. Cool it down and it resumes its original shape. They have lots of different “looks,” but they all work on the same principle. Zofia Rybkowski: There’s lots of experimentation right now in materials that are responsive to environmental cues. Miles O’Brien: It’s an engineering challenge. With support from the National Science Foundation, a multidisciplinary team of scientists at Texas A&M University are working to make buildings more energy efficient. Zofia Rybkowski: This is something that is - it’s a new field, it’s very cutting edge, and these materials are being developed on a daily basis. [  ] Miles O’Brien: They’re using nature-inspired design and new materials to create what are called “smart building skins.” Typical structures have the basics - walls, windows, doors. A smart skin would allow a building to breathe, much like a living system. For engineer Zofia Rybkowski, the idea goes all the way back to an undergraduate biology class. Zofia Rybkowski: I remember my professor drawing, essentially this beautiful leaf and talking about stomata, and this idea that on the underside of leaves, we have these pretty much microscopic openings. Miles O’Brien: So-called “guard cells” surround those openings, plumping up and pulling them wide in wet conditions, shriveling up and pinching shut in dry ones. An elegant design for sure. One she remembered later as an engineer with a strong interest in architecture. It got her thinking. Zofia Rybkowski: Can we start to create a system that is sort of self-regulated, based on the properties of the materials themselves, the inherent properties of the materials themselves? [  ] Miles O’Brien: These shape-memory polymers are the brainchild of Maryam Mansoori. She and the team mix up a chemical cocktail that they bake into wood. The new composite material not only takes on and holds a precise shape, but it changes its shape in response to different environmental conditions. Maryam Mansoori: So, these factors can be heat, can be light, and they react to that. Miles O’Brien: They activate on their own. No one has to switch them on or off. Maryam Mansoori: When it’s hot, we want the building skin to be open to absorb air, and when it's cold, we want it closed, without using external mechanical devices or electrical devices. [  ] Miles O’Brien: They’re working on other approaches here too. Architect Negar Kalantar is harnessing power of 3D printers to fabricate blocks like these. Walls designed with them might look like this, or this. Negar Kalantar: So, these look like the modular concrete or bricks that you have, but with a special design - when you put them together, they generate some aperture that air can go in. Miles O’Brien: The holes in the blocks are shaped like nozzles, designed to naturally draw fresh air into the building. Negar Kalantar: Instead of having the whole thing smart, we can just smart this part. It means that this part can open and close. It looks like the aperture of your eye. That small aperture can open and close the whole system. Miles O’Brien: But what are the most efficient shapes for the holes? They’re putting a lot of work into that and testing many designs. These are all early iterations. [music] Miles O’Brien: They’re making bigger prototypes too, so they can test them at a larger scale. And, they’re looking at how new materials could self-regulate more than just temperature, like air quality, water conservation, and more. It’s a real team effort. Zofia Rybkowski: There’s many possible solutions to this problem, and so the idea was to get all of our students engaged, 66 undergraduates and graduate students engaged, to also help develop some of these new strategies. Miles O’Brien: The through-line for all of it is sustainability. Zofia Rybkowski: That is the big picture, can we do more with less, can we harvest what already exists in the environment and incorporate that into the anatomy of our buildings? Miles O’Brien: Engineering smart building skins for cleaner, greener architecture and design. For Science Nation, I’m Miles O’Brien. 