 Today I'm talking mainly to beginning quilters. If you're not a beginner you can join in too, but I want to share some information with people who are just starting out and I want to show you a great project today. If you are just starting out, when you begin quilting you know I remember when I began quilting and it was really kind of overwhelming because there are so many tools and so many things to learn and so many different ways of doing things and you know that's what makes quilting so exciting? It's something that we like and it stretches our creativity and you know bottom line is it's great fun. So I wanted to share with you a few things today that will help you on your quilting journey and help you really get started and maybe some of you who are watching that have been quilting for a while will like some of these things as well. I want to tell you first of all you need to have a really good rotary mat, a rotary cutter, and a ruler. Now you guys get good products if you're going to spend your money on your hobby make sure when you do that you invest in a quality product. We love Creative Grid rulers. I love specifically this ruler I think this is called the QuickTrim ruler. It is four and a half inches by 18 and a half inches so it's not that really long 24 inch one that you have to deal with. It's a little bit shorter and it will cut your fabric when it is folded at the edge which most of the time I'll cut you know several layers and I do for my binding fabric at the edge. I also love this 8 and a half by 12-inch ruler from Creative Grids and sometimes I will cut my fabric and I will fold it twice so I've got four layers this is perfect for that and it's eight and a half inches wide which is really very unusual for a ruler. Typically rulers are six and a half inches, which is the most common, but there's really a lot of times that you can use this ruler not only to cut strips but also to square up blocks. So I recommend that size as well just check out Creative Grid rulers. There are videos on all of our products that are on our website. So if you go to our website and search Creative Grid rulers, you're going to get a listing of all of them. You can go on there, you can look at the videos, and you can see how they work and you can decide for yourself. Okay the second thing you're going to need is a really great cutting mat. Now the one I have on the table here is by... from a company called Martelli. The reason I love this cutting mat is it's big. Now they do have the smaller sizes as well but if you want a cutting mat for your cutting table this is a great choice. The reason this is a great, another reason this is a great choice is because it's double-sided. You can turn it over and once you wear out this size, which you will if you really get to quilting, you can turn it over and you've got a new mat so you don't have to use basically two mats and one the other brand I really like is Creative Grids. They just came out with a line of cutting mats. This one is a very standard size. It's the 24 inch and again this mat also is double-sided so you got a great mat with this Creative Grids Mat that's a new product for them so it hasn't been out of the market very long. Also you're going to need a good rotary cutter. You guys get a good rotary cutter and make sure you always have new rotary blades in your rotary cutter if you're cutting and it starts skipping threads if you just keep cutting with that blade you're going to get frustrated so just change your blade out. I've got I bet a dozen rotary cutters in my sewing room. Why? I don't know because I can only use one at a time right. Then just the normal regular probably I bet 95% of all quilters have this Olfa Rotary Cutter. It's just an industry standard. It's just kind of our Old Faithful. It's a great medium price I'm not going to say any of these are inexpensive because you know after a while all this adds up, but this is a very good choice if you just want a basic rotary cutter. Now I love Martelli's rotary cutter as well. If you have issues with your hands if you have arthritis or if you have a lot of cutting to do and your hand is going to experience fatigue, I highly recommend this rotary cutter. All you have to do is you open it like that it opens and then when you use this rotary cutter you're actually using the pressure from your hand to do your cutting rather than your finger. If you've cut very much at all you will know that you can experience finger fatigue really quickly and the this rotary cutter will keep you from experiencing that. Alright, the third rotary cutter I'd like to recommend to you is my favorite Tula Pink rotary cutter. Look how pretty that is. It's beautiful. Tula Pink of course it's pink her signature colors this is a rotary cutter that is balanced, it's very balanced in your hand, so it's a really high quality. It's more expensive, yes, but this rotary cutter is just amazing. It cuts very smoothly it really will do the job. So anyway or you maybe like me and just get one of each and just have you know I kind of rotate between them and sometimes I use my Martelli and sometimes I'll use my little Tula Pink. Okay, you're also going to need a pair of scissors if nothing more than just to snip threads. I have my Tula Pink scissors here, I have my Lori Holt scissors. These are just little little snips I have my Tula Pink snips. These are great also very high quality product here again Tula Pink doesn't do anything that's not high quality let me tell you, and then I had my pair of Gingrich my little just my little friend thread snippers so pick yourself up a good pair of scissors. Now what project are you going to work on? Well I'm going to introduce to you the Yellow Brick Road. The Yellow Brick Road is an Atkinson design. Terry Atkinson designed this pattern years ago and I made my first Yellow Brick Road, oh my gosh probably 15 years ago, I don't know maybe even longer. We're in business now almost 24 years so it may have been longer than that. What you're going to want to, you're going to need a pattern. The pattern is Yellow Brick Road. The very cool thing about this pattern is that it's made with fat quarters. This this quilt is made with fat quarters and you can go from a baby quilt to a king quilt from six fat quarters up to 48 fat quarters. Now you can choose your own fat quarters if you want to, sometimes people like to just go fat quarters shopping and just collect them and then put the ones together that they like and make this this project. If you love the fabrics you're going to love the quilt that is all I'm saying and when you choose your fabrics you want to just make sure that you have a good variety of light, medium, dark fabrics. Probably one of the things that a beginning quilter one of the mistakes of beginning quilter makes more than anything is thinking that different color relates your different value and it doesn't a there is a definite light, medium, dark and color so you need to make sure that you have a good variety of that when you're when you're choosing your fabrics. Now a really easy way to do this you guys is to choose a fat quarter bundle these all go together all of these fabrics go together so you can choose this and then pick the ones out that you want you won't use all of them probably this is a 34 fat quarter bundle from Lori Holt. She's one of my favorite designers and this is the fabric that we made the quilt that's hanging behind me the Yellow Brick Road quilt, so if you want to just repeat what I've got on the wall here behind me you're gonna just buy one of these fat quarter bundles you'll have a few fabrics leftover the group behind me is made and we chose a full-size and so we use let's say 24 fat quarters and making that quilt. Now what you're going to do and when you make the center of the quilt of this pattern you're only going to make three blocks and they're so easy. You make them with strips and then you just cut your strips into segments and then you sew your segments back together. So I'll show you though I'm going to show you the the three squares that you're going to be making this is one and it's just you know like I said these are, these are stretchy some of this strip set together you some of this strip set together you cut it into segments you add a piece here at the top and you're done. That's one of the blocks, this is your second block. It's just a square with a strip set this is this is a strip set that you sew and then you cut it in to segments and you add a strip to that to the side of it and then this is your third block. Now you guys that is it. This whole quilt was made with three blocks and you just rotate these blocks around different directions and they give you different looks in the quilt. So you might do, you know something like that, but you can rotate them around any way you want. So what we did with this quilt that's a little bit different and it's not in the pattern, is we added a border of white fabric around it when we cut this two-and-a-half inches. If you want to do it this way you'll have a little bit larger quilt probably more like a queen size and we you're gonna need I would say a yard of fabric for the inner border is all you need. You cut it two and a half inches you add it to the inner quarter and then what we did was we took one of the Lori Holt jelly rolls, which is the same collection as the fat quarter bundle, and we sewed strip sets together, cut those into six and a half inch segments, and we made our outer border. Isn't that smart of us? So we've got a quilt that's probably now queen-size so because a lot of people don't have full sized beds anymore and this would fit on a little bit larger bed if that's something that you want. So anyway, that is our Yellow Brick Road. We do have this kit available as a quilt kit and we'll have the information in the description below to let you know how much it is and all of that kind of good stuff. So if you want to just order the, well actually it isn't a quilt kit, it's the fabric, the fat quarter bundle, and the jelly roll, is what you'll need to order and then a yard of fabric and you're done. So and of course don't forget your pattern you're going to need to your pattern. But anyway, we'll have links to all of these supplies in the description below. I would love to see your quilt once you finish it. I hope that if you are a beginner that you are going to have great fun with this hobby. It's wonderful. It's a great way to make memories and it's something that you will enjoy doing the rest of your life I promise you. So today I want to ask you to subscribe to our YouTube channel there is a button for you to be able to do that if you want to see more of our tutorials and our information that we have so please do that for me and we'll see you in cyberspace another time so this is Deb Luttrell with Stitchin' Heaven. I hope you enjoyed this this information as much as I enjoyed bringing it to you. I'll see you later. Bye bye. 