 The first step is to know what you want! It all starts here, so I make sure I do a bit of browsing and have a clear idea of the outfit I want. I usually make a Pinterest board to see what’s trending and add everything I like in there. So I can see a lot of ruffle sarees, shararas and organza lehengas doing the rounds. But working at Glamrs has made me a bit biased towards sarees, so I think I’m definitely going to go ahead with a monochrome ruffle saree. I can make it work for traditional as well as cocktail functions so it’s a win-win! I have zeroed in on a couple of references and I feel like the ruffles might make it difficult for me to drape, so I’m going to go for a hassle-free, pre-draped saree. So the next step is to get everything I need! I'm here at a fabric store and I'm going to take you through my experience of getting all the fabrics I need for my saree. The ruffles are definitely going to need a sheer effect and a flow so I’m going to look at fabrics like satin georgette or organza because I think they'll be really lightweight and easy to drape While I know what kind of fabrics I want, I do show my references to someone from the fabric store. They always know about new fabrics in-store so if you ask me, more options is always a good thing. If I’m confused, I always drape two fabrics on myself to see how the fall is and how the colours look. I really like how this satin georgette flows & it’s not too heavy on the pocket at 475 a meter. So I looked at a couple of color options, and I think I'm definitely going with this really nice pastel peach. So a normal saree usually takes about 5.5 meters of fabric, but since I want ruffles in mine, I'm going to need a little bit more. I eventually ended up with around 7.5 meters of total fabric. Since I was going for the whole monochrome, tall look, a blouse in the same color family was an obvious pick. It’s ok to color match if the result is so awesome. A sleeveless blouse like i want, usually takes a meter to make so I feel like I can go for a heavier or embellished fabrics I love anything that glitters, so sequins are my go-to! I think I got everything I need, I can’t wait to have this made, I’m gonna go straight to my tailor! The three things most important in life are your career, your faith & a good tailor! But if you’re trying out a new one, remember to give him something that fits you well, or you can also give him a couple of days buffer for a quick trial before he completes the finishing of your outfit. It's completely normal for any tailor to take about 1 to two trials to get your fit & preferences right, so patience is the answer. On the safe side, it’s good to ask your tailor for about an inch of margin in your clothes just in case your weight or measurements fluctuate. That’s something I never compromise on. While I’m always super excited to get my hands on any new outfit, I make sure to watch out for small details. Always make sure your hooks and hangings are tightly sewn and the neck is cleanly handsewn. No one wants a stitch coming undone when you’re supposed to be showing off your best sangeet moves. So here’s my Pre-stitched saree, and there were a few corrections I had to make. I orginally bought 7 and a half meters of fabric for my saree, but I realised I needed a little extra and went back and got 1 & a half meters more. So if you want a saree like this, remember to get about 9 meters of fabric. But I’m very happy with the final look and I feel it was worth it! The one thing that dealing with tailors has taught me, is to always give them one clear reference picture, so that no-one’s surprised or upset in the end. Whether it’s a saree, a pair of pants or skirts, I always remember to keep a couple of clasps in so I can loosen them just in case I end up eating too much wedding food! I’m super particular about my blouses since the fit is really important so I go big on the details! From the shape of the neckline to how deep I want the front and the back neckline, I mention everything! Even little details like piping at the hem or a drawstring at the back can go a long way to make a blouse look finished and well-made. If you want a blouse with sleeves, make sure your tailor takes the measurements of the length and width of where the sleeve will end along with the round of your arm. If you're going for a non-padded blouse, you can always have tiny bra strap holders on your shoulder to keep your straps in place. Now you know how to get something like that beautiful Sabyasachi outfit you saw your favourite celeb wearing, without burning a hole in your pocket! So don’t be afraid to go old school and get your very own customized outfit. Let me know if you want to see more tips on making different kinds of outfits in the comments below. Until next time, stay tuned & stay Glamrs! 