 I'm Teresa Coates. I'm the national educator  for Shannon fabrics and I am here today-We're   gonna be making the Luxe throw, so I'm happy  that you've joined us. Thanks for staying home   and staying safe and joining us here today on  Sew Together Tuesday. We're gonna be making   a Luxe throw. So I have a few samples to show  you guys. The one that we're gonna make today   is smaller--I'm gonna show you why because the  pattern that you can download from our website--so   if you go to shannonfabrics.com/blog you should  be able to get our pattern for it--you'll go   to a--there'll be a blog post there about how to  make the Luxe throw and there'll be a link for it   to download, okay? But this pattern--it's great--I  mean, I said I wrote it so--but it's a great. It's   a great little throw that you can make, but it is  very, very, very large. So I made this one. It's   really big, but it's really, it's sort of lovely.  So it's a really nice one for your bed. It covers   the whole top of our bed, which we have a full?  I can't remember--we have a queen? So anyway,   it covers the top of our bed. That's how big it  is. So it ends up being about 68-by-70 or no--   58-by-78, or something like that. So the pattern  will tell you how big it is, but it's a nice,   big size. This one is made with two yards on each  side so that's what that length is is two yards   with some seam allowances, okay, so it's HUGE. But  the cool thing about this is, one: this is really   nice and big and heavy, so if you have anybody in  your life who wants that weighted blanket-feel,   this is great for that because the blanket is  actually quite heavy, which I personally love.   But you could also make them smaller. So I have a  ruler version here that is--I think it's 40-by-50   or so. So this is a little smaller version. Very  nice, great little throw, nice for wrapping up,   hanging out in bed, sitting in bed. They're  really nice. So you can make them smaller or   you can make it even smaller. So today we're gonna  make one that I'm just using one yard of fabric,   and then we're just gonna split it in two--make  a front and a back out of that. And so basically   it's a quarter of the size that your quilt would  be if you follow the instructions. So the great   thing about this pattern and so many of our  patterns is that the size doesn't really matter.   You can make it whatever size you want to, so that  if you want to have a blanket that is 30-by-40,   it's fine. You can make one that's 60-by-70. You  can make it whatever size you want to. Doesn't   matter. All right, so I'm going to put these to  the side. And then I'm gonna show you--I'll show   you this later. I'm going to show you some  fabrics that we can use. So I want to talk   a little bit today about Luxe Cuddle and the  kind of fabrics we can use for this project,   depending on what you have, what your local  stores have and what you want it to look like,   feel like. So one of the things about our Cuddle  fabrics is we always say that it's 58/60" wide,   which means it's 58 to 60 inches,  depending on the substrate, it can be-- We're back? Okay, we're gonna try again.  Hey guys! Sorry! We're gonna keep trying   this until it works. Internet's a thing. Okay, so  the fabric--the Luxe Cuddle is 58/60" inches wide,   so that's what we always say. So I just wanted to  show you some different ones that you can use for   making this blanket and why you might want to  do them the same on both sides. You'll notice   that my samples--I use the same fabric on both  sides. We've done this class in a few shops.   We did it recently at a shop called A Quilted Crow  in Kansas. And you can use the same fabric on both   sides--makes it easy because they're both going to  be the exact same size. If you use two different   fabrics, they might be slightly different. So  I'll talk you through how we work with that if   you want to do two different fabrics. But I just  wanted to show you some different ones that work   really well for this. So this one I think might be  a Whistler. I wish Annette was here. Annette knows   all the names of the fabrics. This is one  of our Hides I believe--might be Heather. Really nice, silky. This is that weave that I  told you I like so much. And this one is called   Brooklyn. So these are all fabrics that you could  use, but I want to see if there are different   widths. That's why I brought them out actually. They're all really nice, but I bet they're gonna   be different widths. I'll move this fabric over  here. This one is a really fun one because it sort   of looks like it was knitted or something-- same  with this. I like it because it's a little bit   different look than just typical Cuddle. So this  one I can already--tell this one is a little bit   shorter--not a big difference, but a little bit.  And really the biggest thing is when they're   on an inch or two difference, it can really  can make a difference putting them together. That one's a little bit wider this one. So  this would be the first thing I would want to do   if I was going to put two different substrates  together. So you can see this one is actually   quite a bit shorter than some of the others. These two are the same. This one is a little   bit shorter under here--the leaf is a little  bit shorter. This one is a hide and it's quite a   bit shorter. So if I were to sew this one to this  one, which would look nice and be a great front   and back, I would need to make sure that this edge  stays even in the seam allowance or that I cut off   an inch or inch and a half, whatever that is. So  I would want to make sure that those sides even up   somehow, either by leaving a larger seam allowance  on one or putting them together and cutting them   up the one edge. So that's just a sample of the  different fabrics we can use and how we would   use them. Toss that to the side. I have quite a  mess of Luxe Cuddle over there. So now I've got   my big piece of fabric so what I've done is I've  cut a yard of fabric and I'm just gonna make it   so that it is half that size. So what I could do  is I could actually sew them together like this   and not cut this. I'm going to show you how to  cut it because I want you to remember--and for   those of you who are just joining us for the  first time to learn how to cut the fabric the   easier way. I'm gonna do that, going to cut  the fabric and cut it into two sections. This   is the only time that you can really fold it in  half and use it. A lot of times people want to   do that for the back of quilts and they want to  just fold it in half. But then if you're doing   a long one--you're folding in half this way  and so the naps are going opposite directions,   which you don't want. You want your naps to go  in the same direction. In this situation they'll   go the same direction. I'm gonna cut it in half--  So the first thing I'm gonna do is I'm gonna mark   it at 30 inches because that's what I-- Well actually, what I should do is fold   this in half, measure it, and see what my half  measurement is. I save 30 inches, but that's going   on the fact that it could be 58/60" and we just  measured it and saw that it was not as wide. So if   I measure this--oh look at that-- it's almost 30,  so that means the other ones are a little bit more   than 30 inches. So I'm gonna measure 30 inches  from the side over to the middle and that's where   I'm going to cut it. So I'm going to use my ruler  here that I've got. This is the one that comes   with that board that I use underneath the magnetic  board. And so what I'm going to do is I'm going to   bump this up--it's got like a little T square,  so that's my zero mark and then Imma come over   here and mark 30. And I'm just gonna do that a few  times. So however you want to mark your 30 mark,   that's what I would do. I don't really rely  on the fold. You can use the fold but it's   not always folded exactly in half. If you've  ever seen them double and roll the fabric,   it's definitely-- it's an interesting process.  It's kind of fun to watch. So the other thing   you'll notice that I do is that I kind of squish  this out because it wants to kind of fold in on   itself a little bit. So I'm just trying to keep  it as straight as possible. So there we go.  Mark it again. I'm just going to put a few  of these marks--so what I found whenever I'm   cutting Cuddle is the more that you can lay it  out and measure it and mark it and then cut it,   the better. So if you try to just lay this  out and whack it in half, you can do it,   it's just definitely not going to be  as accurate. So now I've got my little   mark--so I've got a few marks down this  side or down the middle. So you can see   these--I've got some marks on here. I'm gonna use  my ruler again. And I'm just going to mark that and make them match. So if  they don't match perfectly,   I'm just gonna kinda wiggle things around  until it's a nice--is that a median? It's just kind of right down  the middle. Blend them together. All right, so there we go. So now we've got  the whole thing marked, and I'm gonna cut this   with my blade, but I have to find it first--oh  there it is! So if you haven't seen this before,   this is the little tool that I like so  much for keeping the mess down when I'm   working with Cuddle. So it's the Olfa blade. It  is the SAC-- it's the artist knife, stainless   steel snap off blade. So you can find it at some  quilt shops. You can find it some artist stores,   a lot of arts and crafts places have them or  something similar. So basically it's a mix   between an exacto knife and a box knife. So it has  the snap off blades like a box knife would have,   but it has the nice sharp point that an  exacto knife would have. So it's a nice   blend. I like it best of the blades that I've  tried. So what I'm gonna do is I'm going to   hold some tension here, and I'm gonna start  dragging that down the back of the fabric. Just gonna cut it-- I can tell I'm pushing  a little bit too hard cuz I'm getting more   hair than I want to, which probably means that I  need to change my blade. One thing you'll notice   is usually when you're pressing too hard, it's  because you've realized it's not cutting as well,   so you press harder and then it makes more mess.  So I'm just gonna keep going down here. You'll   also notice that I keep the blade as flat as  I can along the fabric so I'm not dragging it   like this-- I'm dragging more of the blade down,  which that shape of the blade really helps. So   I'm gonna show you guys--so my blade needs to  be replaced and I can tell cuz it's really not   cutting very well. So this is how I do is I use  my little hemostats, I click this guy out. I'm   gonna grab it, snap it off--come on little guy!  Of course it's not gonna want to do it because   I'm showing you. I've done this a hundred  times. Why is it not doing it? There we go!   I just had to pull it back in a little bit more.  So then I don't have to actually grab the blade,   which is sharp, and I can put it to the side.  My little hemostats are magnetized so they're holding on to it, which is great. So now I've  got a nice sharp blade. Yeah, much better. Definitely needed to be replaced there. So then  I come back up here. I'll do that little blip,   put my blade away. I'm gonna take these to  the side and just give them a little shake. Get my dust out of here. I'll vacuum when  I'm all done. So now I've got two pieces   that are this size--that are basically  30 by 36 inches. So now I want to sew   them together. I'm going to make sure  that my nap is going the same direction,   so I can pet them and I can tell because I'm  going to want my selvedge to selvedge because   that's how it would have folded together.  So here's a selvage and here's my selvage.   So these two are going to need to be together.  The cut sides are going to go back together. So I'm gonna lay these so they match--so there's a  couple of different ways of putting this together.   Really all we're doing is sewing around all four  sides, turning it inside out and top stitching   it but because it's Cuddle, there's a couple  of little things that you need to know about   doing that. One of them is that it's going to  stretch in one direction and not in the other.   So if you remember Cuddle stretches widthwise,  so it'll stretch in this way, but not lengthwise,   which is this way. So widthwise when I'm sewing  it--that's gonna want to stretch--so I'm gonna   be more careful when I'm sewing that direction and  I can be a little less crazy with the pins on the   lengthwise because it doesn't stretch. What I like  to do is I like to start at the selvage side. Most   the time those selvages are pretty straight, and  I can just use those to start with. So I'm gonna   start my pinning there. So I'm gonna get these  together. I'm gonna pull this back. So with the   way that cuddle works, if you have come to any of  my classes here or in person, you'll know we want   to keep the weight on the table because cuddle  is heavy. So if I lay this where I'm just having   this part on the table, it will want to keep  falling off. So I'm going to fold that up on   the table again so you guys can see how I do it.  So basically I just get it on the table and then   I sort of accordion fold it so that it's all in a  little hunk right here. And then I can work with   it, it's not going to fall off the table, it's not  going to go anywhere. I'm not going to do anything   bothersome today. So because we are working with  the selvage side, it doesn't stretch. You can see:   selvage doesn't stretch. It's gonna sew a little  bit easier than the side that has the stretch. So   this time I don't have to pin as much. I don't do  the double pinning that I normally do. In fact,   I've got my little my little clips here. So these  are my little wonder Clips. You can use those or   the big guys, whichever you prefer or have. And  I'm just going to wonder clip the start of the   seam, the end of the seam. I'm gonna make it fit  in between. Because cuddle is a knit fabric and   it's plush, it's hard to get a perfectly accurate  cut. So yours may not be exactly 36 inches long   and that's fine. What we're gonna do is we can  actually hide a lot in those seam allowances,   so what we're gonna do is we're gonna make it fit  and we're just sort of ease in if and where we   need to. So I've got my ends and my middle pinned  are being clipped. I'm gonna clip in between there   and then I'm gonna do my row of pins. So I'm  really just substituting that first row of pins   with the clips here. And I have found that on  this project that works perfectly fine because   the clips hold it well enough because it doesn't  have the stretch. So on the other side you could   try it with the clips and then if it moves too  much, just go back and pin it more. I will do   the double pinning on the stretchy sides, just  because I prefer that, makes it easier for me.   But you can do what you want. So now I'm going to  go back in here and I'm gonna pin in between my   wonder clips. And I'm gonna try to pin far enough  down that I don't have to take those pins out.   That'll just take the Wonder clips out as I go.  But we'll see sometimes I have to take them out.   So basically I've done the double row of pinning,  but one row with wonder clips and one row with   pins. And that works, like I said, especially well  because it is Cuddle fabric--it's the lengthwise   side--excuse me. So a lot of times when you're  doing something like this, what you want to do   is you want to start here so all the way around,  leave a hole turn it inside out. But when we're   working with Cuddle, what I have found is if you  try to do that, it ends up shifting the whole way.   And by the time you get back over to this corner,  you actually have like a little I want to say a   pouch--that's not quite the right word--but you'll  have excess fabric. So you'll have a much better   sew, it'll be more accurate if you actually work  at one side at a time. And besides, then you have   less pins hanging out in your lap. So we'll have  one side, we'll get on the other side, the other   side and then the other. So we're gonna sew--do  we have any questions? Nothing? We're doing well?   People leave in their state? Okay good--city  and state. I want to know. Also let me give   you a quick little recap of the stores that I know  who are open and selling our fabrics. Check with   your local quilt shop. A lot of them are still  shipping and you're able to buy things. You can   call them and ask them too. They don't always have  it online, but all the shops that I know of that   are still operating through this are definitely  willing to work with you. Give them a call, see   what they've got. They're probably gonna FaceTime  you and see the fabric. But I know these guys are   selling it. So this is Quarry Quilts & Yarn in  Sandstone, Minnesota; Sew Much Love in Granbury,   Texas; Willow Tree Fabrics in Decatur, Alabama;  Time Flies Quilt and Sew in Negaunee, Michigan;   Cali Quilt Co up in Sacramento; Missouri Star  Quilt Company; and the Sewing Machine Shop in   Walnut Creek, California. So if any of those  are near you, check them out. If we have any   shops that are here watching, please post in  the comments and let us know where you are and   how we can support you because we really just  want people to be able to find the fabrics. So   please share if you know of a quilt shop near  you that's selling the fabric and selling their   notions and stuff still, please let us know, okay?  Okay, so I'm gonna sew this. I've got it's set on   a straight stitch and I'm gonna pop my stitch  length up to it. Oh there we go--up to a three,   so it's a straight stitch--just a three millimeter  stitch length. There's a little bit longer than   normal. And I've got a stretch needle in here, and  I've got Mettler thread, which is just a polyester   thread. And it's the one that I like the best. So  I've got a medium gray in here. I use medium grey   for basically everything, so that's what I'm  gonna work with today. I'm just going to do a   little backstitch here. Go forward, go back. And  then I'm just gonna use--this is technically 1/8,   1/4, 3/8, and 1/2 is over here. Basically what I'm  doing is I'm trying to make sure that I'm gonna   get past my selvage and using this is basically  a half-inch ish it's closer to 3/8 because that's   just what I do. You just want it big enough that  you're catching both edges. So one of the things   that I've noticed when I'm working with the Cuddle  on this project is that you will end up with with   it sort of--I don't know--gathering too much on  the top. So you can see it's kind of fluffy here,   so I really just want to keep kind of two hands  on it. So I just guide it through like this. Can I   just keep my hands on either side of it and let it  come through? So for me, that's the biggest thing   is because if I don't keep a hand on both sides,  it'll want to start to gather up on the top here   and not stitch very straight. So you can see that  the Wonder clips hold it well enough. I just keep   an eye on this edge to make sure I can see both  edges and that I'm covering the little selvage   holes. They won't actually show when we're done  here because there's so much fluff, but I figure   for stability purpose I should probably do that.  So I'm just gonna sew right along here--set three   millimeter stitch length. If your machine is  having any issues, you can just open up that   stitch link to like a 3.5. And I'm just gonna back  stitch at either end, and then we'll take it back   over the table and do the next side. I'm using the  digital dual feed on my baby lock here. All right,   you can come over here. So we're just gonna  be working back and forth. So let me grab my   pins--oops, sorry! I got a lot of stuff here. Lost  some. So I'm gonna take my pins back over here on   my wonder clips and I'm gonna get out all of those  pins that I left on the side. Got them all. Good,   good. When I was doing this the other day I was  making the other sample, I actually left one in   until I had turned it and then I found it so be  careful. So now I'm gonna do the next side. So   I've got this one. What I want to do is I always  want to start sewing so that I'm gonna cross one   of these lines as I start. So I can't start sewing  here. I have to start sewing here, so I need to   pin it from this side because I'm gonna put it  in here across that path. We always want to cross   these because it'll make it stronger because we're  not gonna do a corner where we're reinforcing it   we're just gonna stitch over it and that will make  it stronger. So I'm gonna do the same thing. I'm   gonna hold these together. And I'm gonna do  the little berp berp berp-- little accordion   thing. Now I've got these two edges together.  So I'm gonna do the same thing I did before,   but I'm gonna do it all with pins. And I'm doing  it all with pins on this one because this is the   stretchy side. So this side will stretch a lot. So  this one moves on me and the stretch and the fluff   added together just give it less stability. So I'm  going to pin it so that it has more stability and   doesn't move on me too much while I'm sewing. So  I'm going to pin it and pin that top row at the   center of the side, the side then pin in between.  So this is where we end up having basically a   million pins. Somebody commented last time that  I was lucky I didn't stab myself too much while I   was sewing. And it's not true--I stab myself all  the time. Could you grab the the drink for me? So now I'm gonna keep pinning--sorry--all the  talking. It is, yes. It's a Baby Lock Crescendo.   I've had it for a little bit over a year now.  I really, really love. It works beautifully   with the Cuddle fabrics. Yeah, it's been a  really good machine. Now I've got my double   row of pins--so I used pins completely on this  one and not the clips at all. The reason--like   I said--I'm doing that is because this one has  more movement, so I'm just trying to keep that   movement in check. So I'm going to come over  here. We're gonna start so that I can cross   this seam that we already sewed. So you sew  this last, gonna come back and I'm gonna start   just before that, go over that, and keep going. I'm gonna backstitch, so I go over that seam.   I'm gonna keep going. Like I said it's about a  half an inch minus a little bit smaller. That's   totally fine. You just want it big enough that  it's gonna catch. It's one of the nice things   about working with the Cuddle fabric is the seam  allowances usually aren't too big of a deal. So   you can see I'm doing the same thing or I'm just  keeping a little bit of tension keeping it nice   and flat as it feeds in. I'm gonna keep an eye on  these pins. This one I can see is a little close.   I might run over it so I'm gonna move it so I  don't stitch that head into my into my blanket,   which I have seen done a lot of times. So one  of the things that I do is back here I can feel   there's a pin, so as I grabbed it I could--  oops I stabbed myself--so I just pull it out.   So once it's past the foot, it doesn't matter.  The other thing you'll notice is that I have   it all up onto the table. So as I'm sewing, I  have this huge amount that's just over here. So   when you're working with a big blanket, that's  the way this is gonna be. It's going to be a,   you know, four yards of fabric that are on the  side of your machine. So make sure that you're   working in a place where you can put that up  on the table if you need to move your sewing   machine to the other end of the kitchen table  so that you can have that whole space, do that   because you'll want to keep the weight off of the  needle because if you have it in front of you,   it wants to all pull down and that's not what  we want. We want it to feed through the machine   easily. It's one thing that I have found a lot of  times in classes and that makes a huge difference. Back stitch--take that out. Off camera: "Is  there any concern about back stitching with   the digital--?" Teresa: No, I have heard that you  cannot, and I have didn't hear that until about a   year into using it, and I've never had a problem  with it. I've been asked that a couple of times,   that they were told that you couldn't back  stitch with it. You just saw me do it twice,   so it totally works and I'm not sure yeah  where the idea comes from that you can't.   So on here you can notice I got a little bit  off. So here's my edge. There's my--it's about   a quarter of an inch off now. I'm just gonna  make sure that when I stitch this, I stitch it   over a little bit further, okay? Not gonna worry  about that at all. I caught that fabric down in   there okay. Doesn't to pull out--I'm just gonna  leave it. So now I'm gonna do the third edge. I'm gonna work my way around in a circle. It  doesn't actually matter-- at least I haven't   found that it matters at all whether I do top,  side, side, bottom or if I do top, side, bottom,   and side. Whichever way works best for you,  I totally--any of them have worked for me. So   I'm gonna clip this over here. I'm going to pin  it real quick here. So this is my lengthwise,   so it doesn't have the stretch, so I can just pull  it nice and taut. So I'm going to fold that up,   do the little accordion thing again. Get it so  that I can have it on my board and pin it. So I'm   going to clip this the same way that I did before,  where I'll do a bunch of clips along this edge. And then I'll do some pins in between. So basically I know that it's uneven here, but  I'm gonna even it up pretty quick and just let   that be not perfect. And the the pins that I'm  using today are those clover pins that I like   so much. They're really good, they're nice and  sharp. They work very well for this product.   So I don't know if you can tell measurements so  well from there, but I've got this pin--I'd say   about an inch from the ROG. Yeah, it's about  the width of your foot. Normally just here   on a regular walking foot, the edge of your  foot from the needle is about a half an inch,   so that works really well for just a regular  walking foot. I'm gonna put this back. I'm gonna   do the same thing again. And I'm just gonna go  forward and a back stitch over where I stitched   before. And I've got that a little bit heavy and  I'm just gonna let it feed itself in because I had   gotten that a little bit off at the end, which  you can see even the professionals do that. So now I can go back up here and I can check. So  this is where it was a little bit short. You see I   just fed them. I evened it up for the seam. But  I want to make sure that I caught that because   now is the time to double check so when you make  those little mistakes like that, just go back and   check like I fixed it, but I want to make sure  that I actually fixed it. If I had been over   here too far I wouldn't have caught it right I've  just caught the edge and I would still want to go   over here and fix it again. That's one of those  places too that if you have to fix that a second   time--like say I didn't catch it when I came  through there-- I would not take my stitches out,   okay? I would just stitch over it, add another  little seam in there. I take out as few seams   as I can with this stuff. We're just gonna come  right along here and then we'll have our bottom.   So you notice that I just keep fidgeting with  it trying to get it nice and flat. There's no   way to get it all nice and flat before you feed  it in there and then also keep the weight off   of it. So you're just gonna have to fidget with  it. I just sew a little move things, sew more,   and this is literally how I sew it all the time.  Come here and just keep that in place. And I can   feel like getting caught up--can you guys see  that how it got caught up behind my digital dual   feed? Sometimes that happens I just gotta let  it out okay, so I can feel it start to bulk up   under there. I just need to fix it. Do a little  back stitch, there we go. So now I've got three   sides done. So now I'm now I'm to the last seam.  Do the same thing and get this ready to sew. So on   this one I need to make it so that I can envelope  it basically, so I can sew it--so I can flip it.   So I noticed that when I do this, it looks like  this side has a little bit extra from how I cut   it that I didn't cut it perfectly. So this side  has a little bit of fluff right here. So you know   what I do--I'm just going to do this, so that when  I pin it, that side is going to be on the bottom   and it's going to feed that in because it'll  be against the feed dogs. That was a good one. This is when I should have my magnetic pin  cushion, and I left it on the other side. Okay!   There we go. So what I want to do is I'm going to  pin this and this is my stretchy side again. And   you can see it--we talked about this last time  is that when you pull it it wants to curl this,   so if you do any like real stretching that curl  like this will actually just stay. We don't want   to stretch it too much, so I'm gonna get this  so that my edges are even, so I've got my raw   edges even. And I'm gonna put a pin in the middle.  And I've got my ends are already basically pinned   because I sewed the seams already. So now I'm just  gonna pin in between all of those. So I'll pin in   the middle and then pin in the middle of those and  pin in the middle of those and then pin again. We   just keep pinning. So this is the stretchy side  needs more pins, not stretchy side needs less   pins. So I have found that if I use those wonder  clips on the not stretchy side, it works really,   really well. But it still needs that second row  of pins, so don't forget that that second row   of pins is really what keeps it nice and stable  while you're sewing. If you don't do that and   you only do the Wonder Clips up here it's really  gonna move on you and you don't want that. So I'm   gonna pin this here. You'll notice that I added  the bulk of the extra that I need to feed in. I   put it up here at the beginning, so that way if  it doesn't feed in quickly, I have the whole way   to catch up so that if it doesn't feed in, I'm not  trying to feed it all in it over here at the very   end because if it grew at all I would be really in  trouble. So at this point, I can sort of keep it   just in check a little bit better. Keep it where I  want it to be, I'll let it feed in as I go. It'll   just move forward. Oh! I almost forgot, you guys.  So I did that thing that people sometimes do is   that you so the whole thing shut and then you  can't actually flip it. So let's not do that,   okay? Not be the first time that happened in a  class either. It would be the first time I did   it. It happens a lot. So we need to leave a little  hole that we can turn this--generally about six   inches works perfectly fine. I do double pins  to remind me that this is my start and my stop.   So that's how I mark it--I parallel pin for  everything except for where I want to stop.   So I'll sew to there. I'll do a little "L" that  we like to do for turning, come back over here,   do the same thing. Did anybody else catch that?  That I was gonna sew it shut? It would have been   a fun one. Like what is she doing? So I do  the little back stitch again, get it going,   and you can see his feed through really nicely.  Make sure that you are using a walking foot of   some sort-- the IDT-- I think it's called IDT  that's on a--somebody will somebody will correct   me. That's actually in the machine. It works that  way. There's a lot of dual feed things that are   in machines now. I still find that a walking foot  works best and especially if you're working with   a lot of layers of Cuddle. So make sure that  you're checking things out and the other thing   you can do is lower the presser foot pressure.  So I'm coming up here on my little stitch where   I need to end it. So I'm going to come up here  and take these pins out and lift my foot and   rotate it. I'm gonna sew right off the edge. So  this is what I talk about whenever I talk about   like sewing-- you're just going to sew a little L  right there--that's what I mean. And we're going   to talk about that a lot because if you haven't  noticed, I do it a lot okay. So then what I'm   going to do is because I want this to still be at  a basically a half an inch and I don't necessarily   want to just eyeball it, I'm going to say get into  here where I was using it, put my needle down,   take my pins out, then I'm gonna sew the down  part. You can yell if that didn't make any sense. So now I'm gonna twist this, go back, and now my  seam allowance is a little more accurate to where   I wanted it to be. Sometimes it's hard to eyeball  that stuff. I'm just gonna sew right along here,   keep taking the pins out. My last pin, I've got  it all eased in, feel it caught it behind the foot   again. All right now we're going to take it out.  So now we've got it all sewn together. So what you   can do, if you want, you can clip your corners. I  will show you on this one, you can't really feel   it, but you can see it at least. So this one I did  not clip my corners and I turned it inside out.   It's a little bit--it's dense there. You can see  I can't really pinch it real tight because there's   a lot of layers, where I can pinch it real flat  here. But visually I can't see it. So I can't tell   that there's a bunch of, you know, seam allowance  in here when I look at it so I leave it. You   are welcome to cut this off. So on these corners  you're welcome to cut this and trim those corners   and make it less bulky. I do not, so that's what  this result is is I just leave it. And then it   seems to be fine to me. The corner is a little bit  rounder than it might be. It doesn't come to as   much of a point. It also means I don't have to cut  the Cuddle again, so I don't. So that's how we're   gonna do this small one the same way is that I'm  just not going to cut it. So we're just gonna take   our hand in here. What I do like to do is find  all of my corners and then I shove them in real   good. So from this side I will shove my corners  in with my finger as tightly as I can. So really   I just got my finger in here and I'm just you know  gonna shove it in there. And then down here we do   the same thing, turn that push the corner out,  and over here too. And then when I flip it the   corners are just out and I don't have to shove my  whole arm back in there to go find those corners.   So then I'm gonna grab the top here, drag it out.  And then the corners are sort of already out. They   just pop right out. Pull it right out. Find the  fourth one--it's around here somewhere. Swear   to God, there were four corners, right? There's  one--oh here it is. It's hiding-- bink! So now,   we have our little blanket. So at this point,  it looks like an envelope sewn together--it's   just two pieces sewn together. So the way that  we make this a little bit nicer is we do this   top stitching. So now we're going to go back  in here and we're gonna top stitch. And I want   to show you a couple of things. So on this one I  did this one, and I did it--I think it's a little   bit more than an inch--it's a really big ruler  to measure that with. Yeah, it's a little bit   more than an inch. I used a spot on my machine,  and I'll show you in a second what I used. This   one here is one that has a much larger--if I can  find an edge here--here we go. So this one--this   is with our glacier-- here is the seam. So the  top stitching here was actually more like three   inches. So you can see it just it doesn't really  make a huge difference. It kind of is just what   you prefer. I've always done a smaller one.  Today we're going to do a little bit bigger   and see what I think. So really, that is very much  personal preference. I also think that the larger   ones--if you have a larger seam allowance--it kind  of gives it a little bit of a flange look. Really,   in the end, you can see-- especially if you go  back in here and you take up your your fibers   like I like to do with the stiletto--it sort of  just loses any edging there at all. So really   just personal preference, but what it does is it  tacks it down, holds it together as one blanket,   and those two pieces become one a lot better  than like this where there's still just two   floppy pieces. It gives that a nice little edge.  Before we do the top stitching I need to hand   stitch the opening close. I need to find out where  I did this so. When I do this I do--see if I can   find my needle-- there it is. So I've just got a  needle that I threaded before. And I've got some   polyester thread. And there I've got my Mettler  the same stuff that I stitched it with. You can   see that this thread doesn't match, and it won't  matter. This is the same thread that I used on   that darker one and it worked just fine okay. So  one of the things about working with the cuddle   is because it's a knit fabric--it's got like more  of an open weave. The weave is different. It's not   a really tight weave so what happens sometimes is  these knots come out. I make a really like sort of   big, ugly, obnoxious knot down here. I usually  knot it a couple of times just because then it   can't get through. See? Not a pretty knot at all.  Not a lovely quilter's knot. It's big. It's ugly,   but it will not pop through. So then what I do  is I come back under here, and I'm gonna grab it   here. So what I want to do is I want to put my  needle up through here, so I'm sort of securing   it in that seam before I start sewing. Now I pop  my needle up here and the way I do this is I just   sort of eyeball it. So I pop it in--you can see  that those where we stitched it in those little   "L"s it makes it so it wants to turn in. I can get  that nice and even. So what I'm gonna do is I'm   gonna push that just a little and I'm gonna clip  it so that I'm not losing track of it. And then   I'm just gonna do a big ladder stitch is what I'm  gonna do where I go in one side. It's kind of just   by feel. I'm gonna go over here and I'm gonna stab  in that fold. Then I'll come back over here... Do   it again. So nice big stitches--these are probably  quarter-inch stitches or so. It's really never   gonna get tugged again--like that stitch or that  seam is really pretty pretty away from any stress.   I did use a double thread you can see just because  I want to be able to tug it and make it nice and   smooth, but you can see it's gone basically. Super  great. So I'm going to do a few more stitches look   at that thing all closed up. So what I tend to  do here--you'll notice--is that I'll do three   or four stitches, I'll let them be loose, and  then I tighten it all up. It's easier for me to   keep track of things that way. You'll also see it  doesn't really matter where you're stitching. Just   make sure that you're getting both sides because  that's that's one area to make sure that--like   when I tug this, I can feel that I've got the  backing and that's what I want us to make sure   I've got the backing--that I'm not just grabbing  fuzz because it's not going to stay that way. So   make sure you got a good handle on it. We're gonna  tug it again. A couple more stitches in there and   then that whole thing will be sewed shut. So  today's giveaway, which we're gonna do later,   so make sure that you put your city and state in  there. Leave your comments. We will totally pick a   winner from all of the comments. And the winner  is gonna get to choose which fabric they want,   but you'll be able to make the large version  of this blanket. I'll show you the fabrics in   just a few. Off Camera: "The question is: why do  you use a machine as opposed to..." Teresa: Oh!   That's a great question. So I--in class a lot  of times, we'll do this--we'll just zigzag it   shut. What happens though--what I have found  and actually I could probably--I'll show you   on another piece. What happens is it's just too  visible. That one I can't hide because it's on   the edge. So most of the times you can hide  stitches really well in Cuddle. What I found   is on that edge I can't. So you absolutely can  stitch it there, My personal preference is to   hand stitch it. So it's absolutely doable--just  a personal preference here that I hand stitch   it because then I'm able to completely hide this  seam, which I like. So I'm gonna take this piece   here. I stitched it over here--I'll show you in  just a second what I was trying to show you. But   let me show you what the zigzag does on here.  So I'm in a pin it because that's what I would   do if I were gonna sew a zig-zag okay so I would  pin it so I can make sure I'm gonna set a nice   big zigzag. So let me change that. See I did it  the smart way that time. Don't stab yourself! So   here's my big wide zigzag--just a regular zigzag.  Five wide, five long. It's gonna live there. Okay,   so I've got a nice big zigzag. Here's where my  stitching stops, so I'm just gonna zigzag over   this so we can get that in there. So what I want  is my stitch--when I do the left side stitch when   it comes down over here is I want it to just come  off the fabric. Then the rest of it is over here.   So I'm gonna do a little lock stitch, and I can  feel it--you can't really see it, but the the   edge of the fabric is actually clear over here.  So when I let go all that fluff is there, but this   is actually the edge of the fabric. So keeping  that in check while you go is important because   if you're just sewing on the edge of the fluff,  you're gonna totally miss the edge of the fabric. So now I can cut. This--it ends up  with this zigzag over the top you   can totally hide this. I can just still  see it and I don't like it as much. It   depends on the fabric how much it hides.  You see--that's okay. I don't know. Yeah,   just personal preference. I don't like the  way that looks. It's much faster, obviously,   but I'm also leaving a small hole when I hand  stitch it so the key for me is just to leave   a small hole and hand stitch that, and I like to  finish better. It also makes it really flat here   along the edge so the rest of this curls because  of the the seam allowance that's in here. It's   like fluffy and rounded and then here where I  zigzagged it--it's smushed flat. So it really   is just like I said personal preference--whatever  you like. Let me show you before I put this away   before we do the top stitching--let me show you  something because this is a question I get is   can you Serge it? You absolutely can. So if you  want your seam allowance to be nice and flat,   that's what you can do. Let me turn this, see if  I can get this come around. So if I do that and I   squish it--this is really nice and smushed. You  feel it and tell me what you think. Off Camera:   "Yeah, it's almost not there. All you can really  feel is the extra thread." Teresa: Yeah and then   down here you can feel it and it's fluffier--it's  like poofier. Yeah so really, it's a textural   thing, really. This doesn't do any difference in  how long your seam will last or how strong it is.   The serging is really just for a finished look.  I know a lot of people have done them this way.   Some people will put the whole blanket together  this way. To me--I don't have the control that I   want with the serger, so I don't. This is a really  great finish though if you're going to use Cuddle   for like a jacket or anything like that--a hat. So  if you Serge those edges, it makes a really nice   finish--that's much nicer looking than that.  But on a blanket for instance or a pillow or   anything like that, where the seams are all gonna  be hidden, I don't really care if it looks like   that. And it adds a little bit of fluff to the the  seam allowance. So there's a little inside scoop. With the serger I don't double pin because  I want to pin that close to it because that   worries me. But I do do that second row  of pins and just make sure that it's far   enough away. You definitely don't want  to go over pins with your serger. One:   you break needles but also you ruin your blade and  you have to buy a new one. That's not fun. So now   we're gonna sew the top stitching. At this point  I'm gonna do pinning again. I'm gonna pin on one   side and I'm gonna clip--I'm actually going to pin  on two sides and clip on the other two sides. So   what I want to do is I want to show you guys the  difference between pinning and clipping. So just   so you guys can see and maybe you can figure out  which one you would prefer. So I'm gonna do the   pin-- Restarted! We're back again. We're gonna  do the top stitching here so what I've done on   this one is I have pinned it about an inch away  or so okay. And I'm gonna do the top stitching   here. So I've pinned it really where I'm going  to sew it because I want it to be--just keep it   in check. You could pin further away as well. We  can pin it down here. I'm not pinning a lot. You   can see that I'm not doing a ton of pins like  I normally do because really all we're trying   to do is keep these layers together over here  so the top stitching because if we if we don't   pin it it will still want to move but we don't  have to do a lot because it already is secured   up here. So I'm gonna pin this direction. I'm  gonna pin the other direction too. So we can   just do those two in a nice fell swoop. I like to  do the the whole thing at one time is what I do.   And so I tend to use the pins and some clips and  I can show you how I do that. So what I'm doing   here on the side is I'm feeling it to get it  to the point so that that seam is on the edge. Make sure that that's all squished so that you can  see where the seam is turned in there. But really   you have to kind of visually just pinch it and  then pull the fabric so that it's nice and flat.   That's the the one area--and I don't fluff out  those seams until after I'm done because I kind   of use them to see easily wear that edge is.  So if you're doing a large blanket like this,   you can see so the the blanket that I did the  other one is twice this long. So when I do that   I just do the one side. I pin the whole side  and then I usually clip a little bit and that's   really what I do is I clip some and then I move  my pins. When I'm doing this gone that big one,   I'll throw a few little clips in here just to  keep things a little bit better where I want   them to be. So now you can move a few of these  over. I'm going to take this back over here.   I'm gonna reset my machine because I moved it  to a zigzag, so I'm put it back in a straight   stitch. Move that up to a three millimeter stitch  length. So you want to at least a three there. If   your machine is feeding it nicely you could you  could bump it up even in just because it's really   just top stitching. So when I did the other one I  used this here as the edge of where my stitching   should be. So I ran the fabric along this edge. I  think--I only have my huge ruler-- that's pretty   funny. So let's see--this one is a little bit  smaller but if I do it there--so that ended   up being just about an inch. So if I do it here  it's more like an inch and a quarter, if I did it   to that line that's two inches. So let's try this  line. I'll use this one to keep my line so that I   can do a bigger top stitch and we'll see how that  goes. So really what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna put   this in. I'm gonna line this up here because  now I know it's starting to inches from that   corner. I'm gonna turn it--I just eyeballed it.  We'll see how close I was. Pretty good. I move it   just a tiny bit over so I know that this is the  like the depth from the back that I want. So I   want it to stay along there, but I need to get  it over so that this edge is going to be along   this edge. So all I did-- it's confusing-- all  I'm doing is basically making an intersection of   two inches from here and two inches from here.  So now I've got my needle down and put my foot   down. I'm gonna do a little lock stitch, and I'm  gonna work my way around this. So this is really   important that this is all staying nice and flat  because you're gonna be able to tell, so that's   that's really up to you at this point and keeping  it nice and even as I'm coming through. So you   can see I can I just use my hand to keep it flat  and even along that edge. As soon as I see a pin,   take it out so I don't run over it. And I'm  gonna do the same thing and just make sure   that this is nice and flat as it's coming in and  that it's feeding through the same way. And then   I'm just watching this line right over here to  make sure that my fabric is running along there.   If it gets a little off it's okay. If you're top  stitching is uneven, this is totally a place that   it doesn't even matter. Mostly top stitching  you have to have it perfect but this one it's   all gonna hide in there, so if you're a little  crooked it's okay. So now I'm just gonna do the   same thing. And I'm gonna come up here. And I'm  gonna kind of guesstimate--there we go--where it   needs to turn. Yes! And I'm going to keep going.  You'll notice as you're sewing it the different   directions will sew differently. And part of  that is the nap and part of that is the stretch.   So just be aware of it--the the sides will sew  differently whether you're going against the nap,   you're going with the nap, you're going across the  nap, that all changes it and whether you're going   with the stretchy side of the not stretchy side.  This is my-- was that my stretchy side? No this is   my not stretchy-- okay so what happens sometimes  here is that you end up getting that thing where   it starts to push this way, so make sure that  this is laying nice and flat because you'll get   that little ridge in there. And then the only  way to get rid of that is to come back and take   it out. So if that happens, just remember that  you know most the time people will be wrapping   it around themselves and not laying it out flat  and that it's still soft! Just gonna keep going. So this two inch border looks like this, which I  really like. I think that's a pretty nice width.   And then all of these will come back in and we'll  fluff some of those up. So as they come around--so   I'm gonna come around to the next corner here  and--see that that pin? I just flew by because   I knew it was far enough away that I was okay.  This one I feel like is probably the same. I'm   just gonna leave it because I can. So this side  I haven't pinned yet. So what I'm gonna do is I'm   gonna feel my border, find it, make sure I've got  it, and I'm gonna clip it. I'm actually gonna grab   some of these big guys. So these are the the Jumbo  wonder clips okay, and these I found worked pretty   well for keeping a flat--oops--a bigger area flat  because they go in further. So this I really like   when I'm doing the one-inch because these actually  have marks on the back, on the lengths. So I think   that they start here--from 1/4, 1/2, 3/4, 1 inch.  So you can actually mark using that, so if I do   this, I know that that's one inch from the edge.  That's what that is, so I'm going to put a couple   of those on there and I'll show you how this works  along that side. So I'm not actually using those   measurements at this point, guys. I just wanted  to show you what they do. A lot of people don't   realize that the winter clips all have little  measurements on them. So I want to keep this   flat and feeding in through. So I don't want this  all to lay down in front of my machine. I want it   to kind of come through, so I'm just gonna make  sure that it's nice and flat and working through. And I'm gonna take these wonder clips out because  what I've noticed is that they can't really get   past the digital dual feed very well because  it's a big guy back here. But on a normal one   you can probably just leave it there and it'll  be okay. I know the wonder clips do that too.   They work with a regular walking foot. So I'm  just keeping this nice and flat as it comes.   I'm watching this whole area to make sure that  it's flat and that I'm not getting any wrinkles   like this or that it's pulling this direction.  So visually I'm just taking my time and making   sure that it's doing what I want it to do.  Get up here do, that one more time, pivot it,   and then we have our last side. This one I'm  going to do the same way with the clips. So   this you can see all of those--you'll notice that  two sides will get buried in there really badly,   will need to be picked out later. And  then the other two-- not so much. Try   not to get any little pleats in your fabric  like I just did. So I'm just feeling this,   and then clipping it so that that side seam  stays right at my side. If you have ever   done this sort of thing, you know how like  one side will want to pull further than the   other. My masks we're doing that a lot this  week when I was doing ties. So now I'm just   gonna stitch right along this side, make sure  that that's feeding underneath my walking foot. So what I've noticed is there are certain places  that I can get a little bit lazy with, and there   are places I can't. And one is keeping this nice  and straight. It's really easy to think that it's   going to sew fine and then it won't, so keeping  that nice and flat is really important. I'm also   keeping all of the blanket up on the table, so  that as it feeds through, it's not pulling extra   weight on my machine. This little guy is not  too heavy, but I will tell you those big ones,   they get a lot of weight. They're real heavy. So  we're just gonna keep on coming down. I can see   there's my corner. We've done pretty good. I don't  see any big puckers along the way here, which is   great. It's always a relief when that happens.  I'm gonna lock my stitch and then I'm gonna   cut my thread. So now I can take this out. I'm  gonna trim up so it leaves that little you know   extra bit of thread when it cuts your thread for  you. So I'm going to trim that off and then you   are basically finished. Because I used a lighter  thread on this, you can see the thread in places.   So all I'm gonna do is I'm going to come back over  here and I'll do this--this is definitely one that   works really well for watching TV is because then  you get to lay the blanket on top of you while   you do this. And it's a great excuse to cuddle  up with it. So I'm just gonna scratch this up.   You can see I just bring all those fibers up. And  then you can't see my stitches at all. So you'll   never know that you used the wrong color thread at  all if you just pull those stitches back up. And   you'll want to do that to both sides, and then  you'll also do it to these sides here. For me,   this is the thing that takes it from being, you  know, not very well made to being really nice.   So you just bring those right back up. And this  stiletto is from ByAnnie. It's the one that I   really love. There are lots of shops who carry  it. So especially if they're a purse making place,   but a lot of other ones do too. Are there any  questions in there? *Off-camera* "A question   about the big Wonder clips. Can you show the  package again?" *Teresa*: Oh yeah, these guys.   Jumbo wonder clips. That's what they are. There  is 24 pieces in this pack. I don't remember,   maybe there's a shop owner here who knows how  much they cost, but I don't remember. I really   like them I don't use them very often, but I've  found that they're really good for the throws and   for the binding on the Cuddle quilts. So you can  see, I just fluffed up that edge it was looking   like this okay so it was all pulled in. Now it  looks like that. It's all pulled out. Much better.   So this--you'll want to do this with your blanket.  Finish it up, make it look really nice at the end.   Super duper easy. Trying to think of what else I  wanted to tell you guys. We need to pick a winner,   so maybe we have that figured out already. You can  come on around. So I wanted to show you a couple   little things before we go. So see, it's not so  hard guys. The Luxe throws are really easy. They   just take a little bit of time. Mostly it's just,  you know, taking your time to clip it and pin it.   When you are doing the original blanket, you're  gonna get four yards of fabric is what you're   going to get from the stores. Get two and then  you'll cut it into two two-yard sections. My my   biggest tip on doing that is to lay that fabric  out flat, or to fold it in half, but lay that   half out flat. Get it as flat as possible and then  measure it. Do the double measuring thing where   you're like really checking to make sure that it's  gonna be straight across the top. Square it up. If   it isn't even, you can kind of feed it in ways  that I showed you, where you just leave a larger   seam allowance over here, or you know, you just  do things a little differently to make it fit. But   try to get it as square as possible. For me, that  takes laying it out nice and flat, getting the   edges even. I clip in a few places. I lay it out  nice and flat, and then I'll pin it on the other   side. Did we have a winner? Is that what that  is? Winner winner chicken dinner. It's like my   favorite phrase. So when you're doing a large one,  just make sure that you're getting it out flat,   as big as possible. We've found in the classes  that if you have six foot tables, you know those   pop-up table so we use like a picnics or potlucks,  if you have any of those, especially if you have   two of them, if you put two of those out, this  blanket will fit completely on the top of that,   which makes it really easy for pinning. So that's  my recommendation is to use your little pop-up   table that you might have. Is there a better  word for those? You know I'm talking about,   right? Yeah, the picnic table. So big plastic  ones that you can get. Those work really, really   well. So that's my recommendation for it. So we  have a winner! I want to show you--we have three   different kinds of fabric. So we have this one,  this one--that did turn out really nice. And then   this one. This is the one that we used a couple  weeks ago in that Kimber bear. I didn't make a   blanket out of it, sorry. So this one--so we have  this is the original one I showed you. This is   our Luxe Cuddle Hide. I can't remember which one  was it? It's graphite? Charcoal! l I think it's   charcoal. It's hard to remember. And this is our  Heather in quartz. So I have these fabrics that   I have enough here because I got a lot to sew  with while I'm in quarantine here. So we got a   bunch--I will send you four yards of whichever  one you want. So our winner--are you ready?   Drum roll please... is Karen M from Slidell?  Sli-dell? Slidell--I'm guessing--Louisiana!   So congratulations, you're the winner! And I'd  like you to leave a comment, just tell me which   one you want. Well you want the, you know--  this is... charcoal, and she wants this one? That's what Ellen said, okay. Charcoal! This is  charcoal, this is Whistler, and this is quartz. So   those are the three ones. We'll clarify, make sure  we're getting you the right one, and I will send   you four yards that you can make your own. Also  if you wanted to, you could make four little ones,   So there's that. The lighter color-- this one  here? Just wanted to verify, this one is--I love   this one so much. It's really pretty. So yeah, I  will send you the four yards of that. The pattern   is available, like I said, from our blog, so you  can go to our shannonfabrics.com/blog. You'll go   to the blog, there's a new blog post all about it,  telling you all of the tools that I like to use,   as well as a download for the pattern. So that you  can make your very own, and like I said, you can   make it whatever size you want to, it's all good.  And lots of stores are carrying this fabric still,   so make sure to check it out. So a couple other  little things. So we have a winner. Before we go,   I want to show you a couple things-- so I had  asked for this to be made a while ago, and Laura's   probably like "Oh, you got that!" So this is a  cute little pattern I got at road to California   when I was out there. So this is from Quilt  Cadets. I showed you her little mood pillow last   week. It's Latifah Saafir is who does these. This  is her little pattern, and I thought it's so cute!   I really want to get that made, and I knew I was  too busy. I was gonna be on the road a bunch, and   I wasn't gonna be able to get it made. So I think  we had Gail make it, but I'm not really sure,   but anyway I just had to show you because it's  just the cutest darn thing. So this is all done   with Cuddle applique, which we should probably  do at some point. Little little zipper bag, throw   your stuff in there. You could totally mix cotton  and Cuddle with this, but I think cuddle is just   the cutest thing for applique. So anyway. I wanted  to show you that. The other thing is we want to   talk about next week! So next week, we are doing  the-- drumroll... elephant. So not surprisingly,   you guys chose the elephant. The elephant is  adorable. It's one of my favorite patterns.   I've taught it in a few different places--at Road  was one of them. Yeah, so this little guy is super   duper cute. Let me bring him out. He is stuffed  really hard. Let me get my pattern stuff here,   hold on guys, sorry. So this is little Ellie  elephant. If you want to make this with us next   week, we're probably going to spend three days  making him because he's a thang. So generally,   in class it takes us about six hours to make it.  So we're gonna be hanging out next week, probably   next Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, and we will  make this guy. So this one I have a few things   to tell you--so if you want to make it, I want  to tell you that this will be the time to do it   because we'll be able to work through it together.  Making stuffed animals is super rewarding because   they're just so darn cute at the end. But they  also can be really odd, and especially if you're   a quilter, they're so 3D. And there's things that  you sew together that don't really make sense   when you're sewing it. And then in the end you  turn it out and it's this cute little animal. So   we'll work through all of those things together.  People love this one. We did it, like I said,   at Road. I think we had 18 women walking around  Road to California with their little elephants   on their hips. It was adorable. So the pattern is  from Funky Friends Factory. We're gonna put a link   in the comments. Ellen should probably do that  any time now--that you can download her pattern,   or you can find it from your local shop. So I'm  gonna suggest that you call your local shop first,   if you have so many local who's shipping still,  see if they've got the pattern. And if they   don't have it or you need to download it, you  absolutely can. Funky Friends Factory is Pauline,   and she's a great pattern designer in Australia.  You can download the pattern. The thing is--what   we want to do differently is--we want to enlarge  the pattern. So she tells you on her website how   to do that. My favorite way of doing it is just  printing it out at 120% on my on my printer. So   from the printer box, I can do that. If you need  to get some help with it, we could probably help   you. There's also lots of tutorials on how to  do it, how to enlarge it. So what happens is   that it makes it bigger. So this is my pattern.  This is the original pattern that's just a 100%,   obviously cuz I marked it. This is a 100%. This  is it a 120%, which makes it much larger. Ta-da!   It makes it much easier to sew. So all of  her patterns when I make them--this little   lion guy--I think he is at 110% or a 120%. He  might be at 120%. I made him at a 100% once,   and he was just like this little teeny tiny  thing that was really hard... So he was at,   I think, maybe at 120. This one is another  one of her patterns. This is from a hedgehog,   which I think is adorable. This one I actually  did at 100%. It was fine because there are less   pieces. So he's got some nice big pieces.  These guys were really easy to work with,   and those little feet. I made it out of our cuddle  suede that we used to have. We no longer carry the   suede though. But this would work for Cuddle  as well, or for a cotton. So this one works   at a 100%. What I have found is if they're more  complicated, the more they need to be up size. You   can actually make them really large. And we have  some that we have made, like there's an elephant   we have at--I don't know--three feet tall.  He's huge. So you can totally mess with those   patterns. Next week we'll do it at 120%. That's  what we'll be working with. I found that's really   easy to work with. What you'll want to do is you  will want to trace--get all of your patterns,   and then you'll want to trace them. You'll need a  main fabric. So you'll need this body fabric. You   can choose to do the feet differently, or just  the same fabric. When we did them the last few   classes, we've done them the same fabric, and  people really like that. You'll need to have a   white. So if you have a Cuddle here that works  really well, you could also use a cotton if you   need it too. And then something for the inside of  the ears, which is the same-- that you can use a   cuddle or a cotton. And then you'll want to use a  Luxe Cuddle for the outside. It'll be super duper   cute. So you'll use-- use your fabric, trace your  patterns onto it, and then cut those out. And like   we've talked about before with cutting--let me  show you really fast. So you can use--I need my   little scissors--would you give me those yellow  ones right there? So when you're using it, you'll   want to trace your pattern out. So I'm gonna  pretend like I've traced it. Here's my foot right?   It's not the best circle, doesn't really matter.  But what I want to show you is you'll trace all   of your patterns, lay them out on here, trace  around them, then cut them, and then you're just   gonna cut them with little bitty snips all the  way around here. If you use big snips, you can,   but you're just gonna make a huge mess. So you can  see most of this the cuddle just stays right on   there. And then at the end, I can throw it in the  dryer, get it all cleaned up, and be ready to sew.   So if you want to join us next week, I would love  for you to get that all ready. Get your pattern,   buy it, trace it, cut it out. Get it ready to go  so that you can actually see the pieces as I'm   working through them to see how they go together,  and maybe you can sew along with me. But if not,   you can actually sew in the evening and know what  I'm talking about because some of the pieces are   kind of funky. But you'll be surprised how easy  it is to actually go together and how wonderful it   is. So that's what we're doing next week so join  us on Tuesday, 10:00 a.m. Pacific. You'll want the   fabric, the pattern, eyeballs if you've got them.  You can use buttons so we use a little safety   eyes because I really like them a lot. And I think  that's it, right? We got our winner I'll send you   some fabric. I'm excited that you're gonna have  a cute little blanket. If you have any questions,   please leave them in the comments. I will be happy  to answer them. This will be up on YouTube later,   so if you need to reference it it will  be on Facebook and on YouTube. So thank   you so much! We'll see you next week for Sew  Together Tuesday. And till then, happy sewing! 