 - Hey, what's up guys welcome back to Chemical Guys Detail Garage. You guys always tell us that car is not dirty, that car is new, that car is clean so today we're going to bring guys a big juicy video. That's right. We went ahead and found the most neglected car we could find I mean, this car has the ignition falling out of it but nonetheless, the fabric is completely tarnished. I mean, I don't know what this car has been through. This car has been through life but today we're going to go and attack the fabric using Fabric Clean. Fabric Clean is a shampoo. The shampoo that can be diluted in a secondary sprayer bottle either in two different types of ratios. One, the 20 to one ratio which is if your fabric is not too dirty, something just light but if your car is severely neglected, fabric is neglected I recommend using the eight to one method that's eight to one ratio. I already went ahead and diluted it in my secondary sprayer bottle. The secondary sprayer bottles actually have a dilution ratio chart right here. I fill up Fabric Clean into the eight to one ratio and the rest water. Don't forget guys to and label your products in the front right here so if you don't use them and someone else uses them they know exactly what they're working with. So after this video I'll label it so any of the guys that are working in the facility they know what products in here. but before I begin, I already have my Drill Attachment Brush that's going to be one of my best friends today. We offer this brush in three different types of methods. One, the gray, which is a super soft that I recommend using on leather or vinyl something that's very soft and you don't want to scratch. Then we have the yellow one. The yellow one is one of my favorite because there's nothing too light and nothing too heavy. For things like this I'll recommend using the yellow one. The grime is heavier but I love the bristles because I know it's not going to go and damage the fabric. And then if you have heavy amounts of grime I recommend using the red one. The red one, the bristles are ultra stiff and they'll help you reduce the grime. But before I forget to tell you guys Fabric Clean is actually a citrus-based product. A citrus-based product that's going to lift up any bad odors or grime or stains from any fabric surface of the vehicle. So to begin this, I'm going to get my secondary sprayer bottle spray it on here, mist it on here and I'm going to allow Fabric Clean to penetrate the surface of the fabric to help me clean it a lot easier. I'll let it sit for anywhere from 10 seconds to 15 seconds then for extra added lubrication I'll go and spray the brush as well and I'll go and work it in side to side up and down and you'll watch the before and after. And wow, that's actually a very big difference. The splatters everywhere so if you guys have I recommend wearing an apron or something so you guys won't get too dirty because check out our table that's everything that came off of the floor mat. Now imagine you might say the car is not dirty but that is because you get used to seeing it like that. I'll go and brush it down. And that is a crazy before and after if I flip it over this is all excess that Fabric Clean went ahead and helped it lift up to remove easily and safely as possible. The floor mat did not get harmed. It actually came back up the fibers. Whenever a floor mat is very neglected the fibers just tend to sit like this. But whenever you actually buy a car if you actually pay close attention to your floor mat the fibers are lifted up. This is because they're open and they are not dirty or clogged. So flip over to another clean side and just make sure I get off everything. And a quick pro tip I like to do guys is just one last pass spray two to three sprays onto a towel and just massage it back and forth. Massage it and flip over and let me just dry it. Now lift this up. And you guys can check that out. I mean, it's a crazy before and after. You guys need to understand that this car has been through it all. I mean, if you guys look at it, it's very neglected now the fibers are clean. I'll let this sit and dry out and once it starts drying out you'll start seeing that the fibers are in dark color fabric is going to go in and lighten up. Why? Because on a fibers on a dark color fabric is always going to go in dark I when it's wet. So guys, I'll meet you guys in the interior of this Honda Civic. Meanwhile, we'll let this floor mat dry by here and I'll show you guys the after results once it completely dries, let's get to it. Now we're back. But now we're inside the spooky Honda Civic interior. I mean, look at this, it's spooky. Headliner is falling off. Like I told you guys, the ignition is falling off as well you guys wanted a dirty car we brought you guys a dirty car but now we're moving on to these fabric seats. So if you do not have a drill attachment or a drill at your house you could also use this method both to clean your fabric seats, fabric floor mats, just like I showed you guys and even your carpet. So all you need to do is spray Fabric Clean onto the surface like so I'll put that right there. I'm actually going to go and spray my brush for extra lubrication. And all you want to do is massage it back and forth. This is going to lift up any grime debris that the seat might've had and there is different types of methods so when it comes to cleaning fabric as well. You can go and you wrap a towel around your nifty brush or you could use the bristles by itself. If you do not know what it means to wrap your towel around the nifty brush you put the nifty brush inside you spray your fabric on it and this is more of a softer clean. So you have very delicate seats with designs on them and you do not want to remove the design, I recommend using this method. Massage it. And I flip it over. You can see all that grime that comes right off. All you need to do is move it to another clean side, spray it down, come back to the area we're working on and scrub it up and do not forget the Fabric Clean like I said, is a citrus-based product that removes odors and stains and a simple pass. So I wanted to finish let me give it a quick wipe down real quick flip it to a clean side, which is wipe it down. Put my towel right here and check this out guys I mean the crazy before and after. Before it used to be neglected, it looks kinda oranges but the fabric is actually like a bluish grayish but a lot of people tend to forget how their fabric actually looks and this is how a fabric is actually supposed to look but once your car is covered into this color you get used to it. So don't ever forget how your interior once looked because if it does, it just sees a look of the vehicle, especially if someone comes in and you don't want your passenger to always be ridding something as dirty but now we're actually going to go and attack the dash because I mean, the dash is pretty dirty so I'll put this back here and I will bring out Total Interior pump pump pump. Total interior is all in it's name. It cleans everything on the interior fabric leather but you might say Henry, why can't I clean up the stains with Total Interior? The reason why I didn't choose Total Interior to clean up these things because Total Interior it's just like a quick touch-up you have a little spill spray with Total Interior wipe it down. These stains were severely stained and deep into it and it also had a bad odor, to want to remove it so I took over Fabric Clean but now Total Interior is very easy to use but before I get into it I actually have my all in the details interior brushes that I can just rub out any debris so I can make sure it falls out and get out of the cracks and crevices before I wipe it down with a Total Interior. Total Interior can also be used on glass only if your glass is not tinted. And a lot of cars nowadays do not have tints on them so go and use it but if you do have tint I recommend using a designated glass cleaner Signature Series Glass Cleaner or even Streak Free. So I got these vents making sure I got everything out of the cracks and using a brush is always going to and help you clean a lot more easier and more efficient because if you do not have a brush and you're getting a microfiber towel it's going to be a little bit more trouble to go like that instead don't even wet it just come get it real quick and it's going to take out all the grime from the cracks and crevices. Check that out. Look at this. You guys see that dust, that's all dust has been sitting here and that is actually very, very bad for you because if you actually were to turn on the AC, you're going to be getting air but you're also going to be getting dust and all that and you don't want to be breathing all that in. So making sure everything's clean I'll get that one on that side because it's little bit too far for you guys to see but all you want to do is get Total Interior cleaner and before I forget, there's actually a tag on this towel remove it to make sure I do not scratch anything on the interior of vehicle and yes, vinyl can get scratched and plastic and you would have to replace it. So spray Total Interior onto the micro towel and all you want to do is wipe in one direction. Check that out. I understand that the dash is gray and it's a little bit more difficult to see but that is everything that has been sitting on this Honda Civic. And honestly I do not know when it was properly cleaned. A cool pro tip for you guys flip the micro towel like that so you have a clean edge. Same exact thing. And I do not like to spray Total Interior directly onto the surface. The reason behind it is because I do not want Total Interior to be landing in the cracks and crevices and having a little bit more trouble with taking it out. So the cleaner, the better. Same exact thing. One, two, three, and now come right here. Total Interior also has a protector in it that's going to go in and protect the dash from any cracking or any sun damage. So if your car does not have tints I recommend protecting it. You could even up your protection even more by using a protective dressing like VRP on these occasions is vinyl but he likes something that's more OEM something more mat. That's why I'm using Total Interior. Total Interior also works on navigation screens. This is navigation screen. Can we just put a navigation screen right there for real? No, I'm joking. So if you do have aftermarket stereo same thing wipe it down with Total Interior Not only does it restore how I once looked but it makes your interior look a lot much better. So flip it over to clean side making sure there's no leftover and there's a little cubby in here I need to get into. Clean it up. And one quick pro tip for you guys also you guys can go and flip open the vent and then you guys can take a microfiber towel with one finger like this and just go like that. And it cleans it all up. But if you guys actually come close, come close, Peter. Peter's behind the cameras. He's actually going to come close. Excuse him if he's not staring You could see a big, big before and after. This is completely clean and check this out that's a crazy layer amount of dust on it. So let me take care of all the interior check out this quick time-lapse and I'll get back to you guys to show you guys the finished results. And we're back. I went ahead and cleaned and protected the interior of this vehicle, not the back, just the front. But guys, if you guys liked this video don't forget to like it, comment and subscribe and we will see you guys next time right here at the Chemical Guys Detail Garage. 