 Welcome to This Just In, a weekly news show highlighting the people and events in Newport News Public Schools where new middle school students and high school freshmen received warm welcomes as they transitioned to virtual learning at their new schools. Making the move from elementary to middle school is a big jump for 6th grade students. Meeting new teachers, learning from a more advanced curriculum, experiencing new related arts classes, and dealing with awkward social growth is a rite of passage for pre-teens. Virtual learning changes the dynamics even further, motivating our middle schools to implement creative methods so 6th graders feel welcome at their new schools. At Crittenden Middle school, the Cougar family came together for a Back to School “Pull-up” Celebration. 6th grade students and their families were cheered on during a festive drive through event. At the end of the line, students received a welcome pack with important school supplies and handy tips to get them ready for virtual learning. Kroger kindly donated bags to package the gifts. While the evening event was designed to celebrate incoming 6th graders, the first 200 7th and 8th grade students who pulled up could also receive a free bag of school supplies. Dozier Middle school hosted a midday Drive-Thru Welcome, exclusive for new 6th grade Dragons. With music blasting, Dozier’s staff socially distanced while dancing and greeting families. It was a chance for students to wave and meet some of their new teachers, who held signs with their names on them so students could recognize them. The energetic staff handed out virtual school supplies and fun treats, with a personalized greeting for each 6th grader. The staff also took time to answer any questions families had about virtual learning, all to help make the transition that much smoother. The excited staff at Gildersleeve Middle school organized a citywide school supply delivery. The Seahawk staff loaded 7 buses full of bagged school supplies to personally deliver to 6th graders, no matter where they live in Newport News. Gildersleeve’s PTA and dedicated staff purchased and organized the necessary supplies into paper bags donated by Food Lion. Gildersleeve families were notified of each bus’s route and what time they would be at the closest bus stop. Throughout the city, excited educators hand delivered supplies and agendas to grateful families, while welcoming 6th graders to a new and exciting year of learning. Newport News high schools devoted an entire week to help the Class of 2024 feel welcome. Freshman Welcome Week was packed full of online and in person events designed to keep families informed about the new school year and get students excited about moving up to high school. Across social media platforms, freshmen tuned in for videos and live video chats to help answer their questions about virtual learning in high school, meet their school leaders and teachers, explore their new school through a virtual tour, and learn about what options are available to them through athletics, clubs and activities, and community service. Social media also allowed upperclassmen to share some nuggets of wisdom with the freshmen who were beginning their adventure into high school. As the week wrapped up, students at each high school were invited to a Freshman Welcome Parade in their honor. DJ’s and dancing educators kept the atmosphere festive and upbeat, as families drove though spirited receiving lines to receive swag bags, t-shirts, and school supplies. At some schools, students dropped off items to be placed in a time capsule, or signed a banner to show their commitment to graduate. As these incoming freshmen prepared to become a Hurricane, Patriot, Monarch, Raider, or Wolverine, this was just the start to four memorable years for the Class of 2024. The CoNNected at Home website is a valuable resource to ensure every student can participate in virtual learning effectively. CoNNected at Home can be accessed directly from the NNPS website to offer at-home support. If students are having issues with their Chromebook or trouble accessing the Canvas Learning Management System, contact information is available for Tech Support, as well as locations where families can receive in-person technical assistance. CoNNected at Home also offers additional resources, online tools, and a helpful map of public WiFi Hotspots so all students can connect, engage, and succeed through virtual learning. The dedicated Child Nutrition Services team will continue serving nutritious meals and delicious snacks to students during virtual learning. Free Meals- to-Go will be available at multiple schools and several mobile sites 4 days a week. Monday through Thursday, families can drive by any of the participating locations from 4:30 to 5:30pm to receive a packaged breakfast, lunch, snack, and dinner. Visit the Child Nutrition Services website for more information. Thanks for joining us for this week’s edition of This Just In. And check out more fun and informative videos at nnpstv.com to see the many great things happening in Newport News Public Schools. Thanks for watching. 