 Hey there! It's me again from the Office of Developmental Disability Services. I have some more information to share with you to help you, and those around you stay safe and healthy while the virus that causes COVID-19 is present in our communities. Have you heard of Stay Home Save Lives? It's an important order from the Governor of Oregon, Kate Brown, to help keep everyone safe. #Stay Home, save lives means stay home if you can, keep practicing good hygiene -- wash your hands, wipe down surfaces, and keep yourself healthy. It means that the best way we can all protect one another, is to keep our distance for right now and stay home as much as possible. Sometimes, everyone needs to leave for essential things. This might be groceries, or fresh air.   Please enjoy your neighborhood, wave from a distance to your friends, stay engaged as much as possible, while still maintaining physical space between others. Six feet at least, or about the distance from the head of your bed to the foot of it. Stay at home as much as possible. Until you hear otherwise from the healthcare officials, even if you have no symptoms. Avoid all crowds and keep your distance from anyone who doesn't live in your home. Stay at home doesn't mean that you have to be isolated from the world. We just need to be a little more creative on how we connect with others. Thankfully, we live in an age of amazing technology that keeps the world connected through something as small as a phone or tablet.  Start a watch party on Facebook. Catch one of the hundreds of movies that have been released to watch from home, call or do a video chat with your friends and family. You may not realize how much reaching out may help someone else who might be struggling with staying home too. If you're anything like me, you bought a book about a year ago and you were really interested in reading, but then life happened, and you got busy. Go dust off that book and get to reading. Even if you don't have a book at home, your local library has available online resources. Audio books, movies, TV shows, you can even learn a new language with Mango languages, or brush up on, and even tackle, learning a new work skill with the Lynda library. Enjoy playing a board game, or card game, or try making a new recipe in the kitchen. I love to work in my yard pulling weeds from the garden, and feeling the sunshine on my back. What do you like to do around the house? Although the weather can be unpredictable, take advantage of the outdoors, and things you like to do outside while the weather permits. Wave hello from a distance to friends or neighbors you see when you're outside.   Some neighborhoods are even playing games where they put an Egg in their window for those who walk by to find. A social distance Spring Egg hunt! Let's take this opportunity to strengthen our neighborhoods and communities. We're all in this together. Thank you for watching! 