 Welcome to This Just In, a weekly news show highlighting the people and events in Newport News Public Schools, where summer opportunities emphasized the fun and importance of daily reading. Even in our technology driven world, reading is still the foundational building block for a lifetime of success. And while the summer months promote relaxation and laziness, a brotherhood of mentors rose up to inspire young men from across the country to write their own story of positivity and success. Boys Read Too, a 2020 Summer Reading Club was a virtual offering designed to create a community of readers among male students in grades 8 through 11. The reading program was created by Woodside High school’s Assistant Principal, Dr. Diron Ford, with technical assistance and student support from emerging leader, and the current student representative to the Newport News School Board, Jordan Moody. For four weeks in June and July, 25 students from 6 cities in Virginia, Maryland, North Carolina, and Texas logged onto Zoom to read and discuss culturally relevant, male centered texts which focused on themes of servant-leadership, civic awareness, goal setting, passion, empathy, and community. Each week, the young men would read excerpts or speeches from Dr. Martin Luther King, Kobe Bryant, Malcolm X, and Langston Hughes. The discussions that followed were led by a range of special guests with local ties to Newport News, including NFL superstar, Antoine Bethea, city councilman and educator, Dr. Marcellus Harris, elementary teacher and youth pastor, Vernon Woodard, fashion designer, Tommy Reamon Jr., and Honorable Judge Dontae Bugg. Smaller groups of students and leaders split into breakout sessions to cultivate idea sharing and help build networking skills between young men and successful mentors. For everyone involved, Boys Read Too brought generations together for relevant and thought-provoking discussions, while building life changing relationships. And before Boys Read Too has a chance to impact more young lives next summer, the Fall edition is taking place right now in early October. Elementary school teachers shared their love of books by pedaling their wares on the literal road to reading. In the past 6 years, countless numbers of students, and some adults, have received more than 14,000 free books from Books on Bikes Newport News. Teams of educators at four elementary schools spent their summer break pedaling around town with free books and popsicles to motivate students to keep reading over the summer months. Each week, educators from Discovery STEM Academy, Epes, Greenwood, and McIntosh Elementary schools logged the miles to personally deliver brand new books and cool treats to students in their school zones. For safety among the global pandemic, the riders wore facemasks and each kid scrubbed in with hand sanitizer before browsing the wide range of grade appropriate reading materials. With many interactions taking place virtually these days, the weekly bike rides to neighborhoods was a delight for students and teachers, and helped keep lines of communication strong between schools and families. Near the end of summer, Books on Bikes Newport News held their own Back-to- School Supply Drive, and collected enough supplies and monetary donations to assist several schools. Books on Bikes also took the opportunity to pass out school supplies during their rides in late August, to help more students prepare for virtual learning. Books on Bikes is funded by the generosity of local businesses, individuals, and school PTA’s. Along with constant support from the City of Newport News, who contributed $5,000 this summer to boost children’s literacy and community outreach. And with Books on Bikes expanding to additional schools and neighborhoods this year, even more students can experience the joy of reading at home. The CoNNected at Home website is a valuable resource to ensure every student can participate in virtual learning effectively. CoNNected at Home can be accessed directly from the NNPS website to offer at-home support. If students are having issues with their Chromebook or trouble accessing the Canvas Learning Management System, contact information is available for Tech Support, as well as locations where families can receive in-person technical assistance. CoNNected at Home also offers additional resources, online tools, and a helpful map of public WiFi Hotspots so all students can connect, engage, and succeed through virtual learning. Thanks for joining us for this week’s edition of This Just In. And check out more fun and informative videos at nnpstv.com to see the many great things happening in Newport News Public Schools. Thanks for watching. 