 (lively music) Hi, I'm Doug. I'm a writer at Microsoft. Want to show you about connecting to things today. Connecting to your home WIFI, connecting to Bluetooth devices like computer mice or speakers and connecting to your printer. Now this isn't a comprehensive guide to connecting. There's a lot of tools out there, a lot of devices and as you have older ones like older printers, it can be kind of tricky sometimes. The place to start is the Notification icon on your Task bar It opens up the Action Center. You'll find several buttons here including Network so let's select that. These are all the wireless signals that the PC can find. The stronger ones will be on top so that's usually your home network. Some of them may have locks. Some of them maybe networks like these home networks that I've already connected to so I don't need the password anymore but to connect to them, I just simply tap it. I'll check this box so it'll connect automatically next time. And if I had to put a password in, it would tell me now to do that. But I'm connected. Let's go back to the Action Center. You can actually expand these buttons. There's a lot of great shortcuts here including find things like Focus Assist. If you want to turn off some of those alarms so you can focus on something. There's things for if you need to project and Bluetooth. Now if I just tap this button, it turns Bluetooth on and off. But let's go a little further just to show you a little more If we right click, we can go to Settings. This is everything that's connected to my computer, either Bluetooth or not. So things that are wired through like I have an extra keyboard, my mouse. So the first step is we're gonna turn on Bluetooth and this opens up the channel that says hey, I'm ready to receive signals from Bluetooth devices and we'll go find Bluetooth devices. Many Bluetooth devices like this speaker have a dedicated Bluetooth button that you just press and hold. Now it's searching. Other devices like these Surface headphones don't have a dedicated Bluetooth but that's where the power button comes in. First we'll turn it on. Hi, you've got about nine hours of battery left. And then if we hold it in, You're ready to pair. You'll be ready to pair and you'll be found. So, there are those Surface headphones. So I'll tap here and now my Surface headphones are connected. So the easiest way to connect a printer, so a printer cable where you have a USB that goes into your device and this square-shaped or U-shaped cable that goes into the back of your printer. But many new printers have WIFI capabilities that work pretty much like Bluetooth. We'll go back to the Action Center and we can also go to All Settings here. Show you, you go under Devices. There's that Bluetooth screen again and right here there's Printers. And the same thing, if you don't see your printer listed here, you need to add a printer and it'll start looking for printers that are connecting. And there it finds it. So we'll select it and we'll add the device. Again, we'll have information, some troubleshooting articles in the notes below to help you out. If you have any tricks about how you connect at home, we'd love to see 'em in the comments and if you know anyone who would benefit from this video, we hope you share it along. Until next time for "Simply Windows." I'm Doug. See you later. (lively music) 