 Hi, good day everybody. Welcome to the Schneider Electric Wiser smart home. Come, let me show you what we have. All right, I'm home, I'm going to turn on the lights. Yes, it's very simple. Not impressive enough? Hey Siri. I'm home! All right. Wait for a while. Yes so, welcome to Schneider Electric Wiser smart home. All right, apart from the voice command that you see just now and the app control, we do have a few sensors in range to assist in a smart home application. All right, so we have a total of four smart devices. Number one is the montion sensor. Okay, so when you walk past a motion sensor, you can activate a momment, a scenario. Can you guess what is this? Hmmm, let me show you. Hmm, all right all right I get it. See? I received an alarm, it's called the water leakage alarm. Okay so when it detects water, this water leakage alarm will tell you, yes there is a water leakage, it's time to rectify the issue. It will be good for house with elderlies and the young ones. All right, come let's follow me! Okay, welcome to my garden, so let me open the door to the garden. Wow, check out my garden lights. All right, if you may wonder what activate my garden lights, so here is my sensor, over here. It's called the door or window sensor. All right, so it helps me if I close my door, it will turn off my garden lights. Thus it saves alot of energy. All right, follow me. Okay, over here we have a small little sensor. It's very sleek, very slim. So can you make a guess what is it? Let me give you a hint. This has something to do with the air conditioner. All right, this is the temperature and humidity sensor. So, let's say Singapore is a very hot weather, above twenty five degree celsius, This sensor will actually activate and turn on the aircon. All right, okay come, let's follow me. A long day at home, okay so let me turn on the TV, okay, would you like to watch some kids channel? Hmm, not your kind of channel? No worries, let me change the program for you. This show seems interesting, but it's a little soft over here. Let me increase the volume. All right, as you can see, Wiser smart home itself also can control TV, aircon and Hi-Fi system. So, how do I do this? We have this device called the 360 IR converter, where it can help to control your TV, aircon and the Hi-Fi system. So, you may put all your remote control at home to one side and just use only one device and good news! Everything is in just one application. I don't have to switch to any other application in my Ipad. Isn't that great? Okay, time to work. Let me turn off the TV. Come, follow me! All right, check out our switches. Right, these beautiful white switches and wine gold switches. If I click on, you can see, there's actually LED lights, that tells you that its off. So, at night when you turn off the lights, you are still able to see the lights. It's for safety purpose too. Okay, hmm let me try. Seems like all these switch couldn't be removed. Okay, what is this? We have one switch called the Free Locate. which is wirelessly controlled all your device, so let me see what I can do with this device. Check out the Christmass tree over there. Oh my god! You can control the lights freely. So as you can see, this is wireless and if I control my switch this is what I can do. All right, so you may ask. Why do I need this? A very good example is lets say, if your home have a kid, and he would like to turn off the switch but he couldn't reach for the switch this, you can put at the bed where your child can reach this switch and turn the lights off by himself. So this actually cultivate him to have the energy saving habits. All right, so let me put back this. Okay, so you are wondering all our switches and all our devices, how are they connected to each other? Who is the brain that is controlling everything? So, let us go back to somewhere that we've been before. Hi, welcome! All right, so you can see in here, we have the Wiser hub. So this is the one that is controlling all your switches at home, and all your sensors at home and this is the reason why we can control all our devices using smart devices and voice control. All right. Thank you for coming to Wiser smart home. Have a good day, bye! 