  - [Kendra] Good afternoon! My name is Kendra White, and I'm the senior manager of Community Relations for UPMC for Life. Today's staying in touch series will be episode six: staying connected at home. The staying in touch series was designed with you in mind. UPMC Health Plan is here to help you stay connected and informed during this challenging time. We are happy you have taken the time to join us to hear from some of our experts in the fields of preventative medicine, mental and physical health, and other specialties about how to stay healthy, manage stress, be active, and connect with your community, all from the comfort of your home. Our program will last for about 30 to 45 minutes today and before I introduce today's presenters, I wanted to start with a quick poll question for our audience of listeners. So, if you're joining us from the online platform, you'll see a new poll question has become available, and you'll have the option to vote accordingly. If you're joining us by telephone, the question that I would like to ask is: have you used telemedicine in the past? You can press 1 for yes And press 2 for no. Press 1 for yes if you have used telemedicine in the past and press 2 for no. Great, I see that's coming through. And again, if you're online, you can vote accordingly through the online platform. I would also like our audience to know if at any time you would like to ask a question for our presenter, press *3 on your telephone keypad to be connected with someone from our team who will take your question and share it with us. If you're joining via the online forum and decide to type in a question there, please provide your name and an email address or phone number where we can get back to you because that information is not provided to us automatically. We want to make sure we can respond. If we don't get to answer your question on the live call today, we will be given a log of these questions after the call that will enable our team of professionals to follow up with your question, comment, or your need accordingly. If you have questions specific to the Covid-19 virus, we ask that you visit our website, www.upmchealthplan.com/covid-19 So again, that's *3 if you're joining via the phone today if you have questions or comments. We also would welcome any ideas you may have for future topics for this series. These programs are created with you in mind, so we certainly welcome your feedback. Without further ado, I'd like to introduce today's presenters. I have Dr. Ellen Beckjord. Dr. Beckjord is a clinical psychologist with additional training in epidemiology and biostatistics. She joined UPMC Health Plan in February 2015, where she serves as our Associate Vice President of Population Health and Clinical Transformation. Her current work is focused on behavioral science, population health, and the use of digital tools to promote health, wellness, and behavior change. We also have joining us today, is Michelle Palmieri. And I just have Michelle I just lost Michelle's bio. Michelle I'm going to come back to your bio as soon as I find the paper. I'm having one of those days, so I'm looking forward to being connected at home today. Ladies, thank you for joining me. - [Ellen] Happy to be here. - [Michelle] Yes - [Kendra] So, Michelle is one of our senior managers for telehealth, for operations and implementation with UPMC Health Plan. And I have no idea what happened to the papers, so I apologize in advance for that. But you have a great program today, this is one of my favorite topics that we've been really promoting lately, so I know our audience will definitely benefit from this as well. So, welcome today ladies. - [Ellen] Thank you. So Hi, Everyone. As Kendra Said, I'm Ellen Beckjord, I'm gonna go quickly through an overview of what we'll talk about over the next, about, 30 minutes. And I'm gonna let Michelle do some of this as well. So the episode is focused on staying connected while at home. We're going to talk about the importance of still being able to see people even while we're social distancing. And talk about some ways you can connect with people face to face via your smart phone and how to make video calls from your smartphone. And why that's important during this time as we still engage in social distancing. But beyond connecting via video face to face with friends and family, there's also ways to do that that are really important right now with respect to connecting face to face with your healthcare providers. And Michelle is going to talk through some options for how to do that. So, Michelle, do you want to give an overview as to what we'll cover with respect to telehealth? - [Michelle] Sure, thanks Ellen! Again, this is Michelle Palmieri, and I will be talking about a couple tools that we can share with all of you on how you can stay connected to your providers. We will review the MyUPMC option, as well as UPMC AnywhereCare option, and talk a little about the difference of the two. And then we will also provide you with additional resources and allow for time for questions and answers. - [Ellen] Great, thanks Michelle! So, let's talk for a second about the importance of seeing people. Seeing people makes the difference. Even if you can't be with them in person, and like me, some of you may remember a time 20, 25 years ago when the idea of making a video phone call seemed like something way off in the future, but now it's something that all of us can do from our smartphones. And when we take the extra step of turning the video on, during a phone call, that's something that we of course we could have always been doing but you may be more interested in doing it now because seeing the face of the person or the people you're speaking to by phone really makes a difference. We know that it helps people feel more like they're interacting with those friends and loved ones in real life. You can see people's body language, and their expressions, which sometimes makes you feel more connected to them during the phone call and during the part of the presentation that Michelle will give, when we're talking with healthcare providers, using video can be really important for helping providers give the best assessments of symptoms and make an accurate diagnosis for you. So your smartphone can be used to make video calls with your friends, your family, and your loved ones. It's part of functionality in almost every smartphone and probably the ones that you all use. And we'll also talk about how to take advantage of telehealth video options to visit with doctors and other healthcare providers face to face via both MyUPMC and UPMC AnywhereCare. And that's the part of the discussion that Michelle will lead but before we get there, let's just take a minute to go through the how-to of using your smartphone to make a video call. So, I'm going to talk about how to do this with an iPhone and also how to do it with an Android phone because there are a couple of differences. So if you use an iPhone, if you have an Apple smartphone, the first thing you want to do is make sure that FaceTime is turned on in your settings. So you go to settings. There is an icon for FaceTime, and you just make sure that FaceTime is set to on. FaceTime is the name of the app in an Apple smartphone that is used to make video calls. So once you have FaceTime turned on, then it's pretty easy to make a video call. From within FaceTime, you'll see a little plus sign, in the upper right hand corner of your iPhone screen, and then you type in either the name of the contact or the phone number that you want to call and simply hit video to make a FaceTime video call. And that will be a phone call where you can see face to face the other person at the other end of the line. If you're having a regular phone call, just with audio with someone, and you're using an iPhone and they are too, you can always switch to a video call by looking at the screen of the phone and touching the little video camera icon. Which will switch your telephone call without video to one that includes video. So those are the basics for how to make a video call with an iPhone, but for more information or for step-by-step instructions you can search the internet for "How to make a video call with an iPhone" for more detailed instructions. If you use a Google smartphone or an Android smartphone, you'll want to make sure that you have installed on your phone the latest version of the app called Google Duo. So on an iPhone, the app to make a video is called FaceTime. On an Android smartphone or Google smartphone, the app is called Google Duo, and it works pretty much the same way. To make a video call, you would open the Google Duo app, add contact to enter either the phone number or the name of the person who you'd like to call. And if the other person doesn't also have the Google Duo app, you can send them an invitation to download the app for free Both the FaceTime app for Apple and the Google Duo app for Androids are free apps, and don't cost anything additional to install on your smartphone. So if you use an Android device, and you want to make a video call using Google Duo, you can search for more detailed information and step-by-step instructions on how to do it by searching the internet for "How to make a video call with an Android smartphone". Okay, next I'm going to turn it over to Michelle who will talk you through how to do video appointments with healthcare providers, starting with the use of MyUPMC. - [Kendra] Michelle, before you start, I would like to remind our listeners to press *3 if you have any questions or comments that you would like to share. You will be connected with someone who can take your call. If you're on the online forum and you have a question, you can type the question in there, but please provide us with your name and a phone number or email address where we can respond. And Michelle, I found the bio. It was hiding in the slides, so I'm going to give you your proper introduction because you deserve that. Michelle has been with UPMC for close to three years. She has over 25 years of experience in social work, and she has fulfilled many roles, such as public policy, advocacy, leadership, project management in the digital tool space with research and nonprofit organizations, clinical practice and training and education. Michelle's greatest attribute is her passion for helping others, and we appreciate these high level professionals that we work with at UPMC to take the time to spend with our listeners to go over these tools because they are very innovative and very appropriate, particularly with the day and age we're dealing with right now. So, thank you, Michelle. I apologize for my snafu earlier, missing your bio, and I appreciate your time today. - [Michelle] Thanks, Kendra! Yes, I would like to talk a little bit about the two options that are available for video appointments or otherwise called, telehealth appointments. With the MyUPMC application, you can have secure video visits with many UPMC doctors or providers by using your smartphone or tablet. You can also access your test results or message your doctor. To schedule a video visit with your primary care physician, you can actually go to providers.upmc.com or if you would like to schedule a video visit with your specialist, you can contact your provider's office directly. We will talk a little bit about the UPMC app as well as the AnywhereCare application. And I want to make sure that you are aware of the two differences. The biggest difference with the MyUPMC app, it is directly scheduled appointments with your providers, that you've already been seeing or have been very familiar with. The AnywhereCare application that we will talk about next is for on-demand services, anywhere, at any time. To access the MyUPMC application, and again schedule appointments with providers you are already familiar with, you can go ahead and prepare a video visit in advance by downloading the MyUPMC app to your smartphone from the Apple store or the Google Play store. You will want to make sure that your phone settings allow for camera and microphone permissions for the MyUPMC application. You will want to log into your account or follow the steps that it will walk you through to create an account. You will also want to test your device in advance of your appointment. And you can do that by logging in, select Appointments from the homepage. Click on your Video Visit appointment under the NEXT 7 DAYS and select Test Video. A message will tell you that you are all set. To start your actual video visit appointment, you can also log in 30 minutes prior to your appointment. Select appointments from the homepage. Click on your Video Visit appointment under the NEXT 7 DAYS and begin your visit. It may sound a little complicated right now, but it is very easy and very simple to walk through. You should be able to access it in just a few moments. We will talk a little bit now about UPMC AnywhereCare, which gives you 24 hours a day, seven days a week, access to quality care through a video visit. There is no appointment necessary, and again, this is an on-demand service, anytime, anywhere, by using the UPMC AnywhereCare application. This is predominantly for nonemergency symptoms, such as if you are experiencing cold or flu symptoms, possibly have an earache, pink eye, seasonal allergies. UPMC doctors, nurses, and other health care professionals will review your symptoms with you, and they will give you a treatment plan which could entail ordering medications, or directing you to follow up with a provider you are already working with. To get started for the UPMC AnywhereCare application, you will want to download to your smartphone or tablet the UPMC AnywhereCare app by going to the Apple store or the Google Play store. To register, you will click Sign Up and fill out your information and then click Continue. There are multiple options that you can choose from when you log in. Pick the one that is best for your needs. An example of this could be that there is a UPMC Virtual Urgent Care, which is for all ages, and another example would be is there is UPMC Children's AnywhereCare, which is for children ages zero to 17. So when you log in, again, pick the one that is most appropriate for you. You will want to click Get Started and you can find a specific provider. If you have a computer at home that has a camera, you can also go to UPMCAnywhereCare.com to set up a virtual visit from your desktop or laptop. Again, you will sign up at the top of the page, and fill out all of the required fields. Choose UPMC Health Plan from the dropdown menu, and enter your member ID. Click Finish. And then you will select UPMC Virtual Urgent Care if that is the one that is most appropriate for you, and click Get Started to find a provider. If there is a wait, you can stay in the virtual waiting room or have the option to have UPMC AnywhereCare text you when the provider is available. Again, these steps are very simple and easy to navigate through, so I encourage you to utilize either the MyUPMC to schedule appointments with your provider or the UPMC AnywhereCare for on-demand services that are not emergency related. At this time, I believe, I will turn it back over to Kendra. - [Kendra] Great! Thank you Michelle, and I want to remind our listeners, if you have a question or comment, you can press *3 to be connected with someone who can take your call. We did cover a lot of complicated information if you don't have the visual in front of you, the slides from today's presentation will be available on our website probably within the next couple of days in addition to this recording. And on our website you can find information about community resources, telephonic counseling, health coaches, the AnywhereCare, how to download it, et cetera. And the website is upmchealthplan.com/intouch and also, if you're looking for more information about Covid-19, we have a website dedicated just to that and it's upmchealthplan.com/covid-19 And I also have a second poll question that I want to ask our listeners. After today's presentation, would you consider using telehealth now? Press 1 for yes. Press 2 for no. Again, would you consider using telehealth now, after listening to today's presentation? Press 1 for yes. Press 2 for no. And also just to recap our first poll. 77% of you said no, you had never used telehealth. So, that's very, it's good that you joined us today to learn more about it. It is very innovative and you know, again, I've actually used it myself twice during this week 7 of stay-at-home. And it's been very beneficial to my family to have that. So if you cannot access it, if you don't have a smart phone or you don't have capability or you're afraid to do it or whatever. We can certainly help walk you through that, if you need help downloading it, et cetera. But if you don't have the capability, we recommend that you connect with your doctor or your PCP to see if they can do a phone call with you to talk you through your symptoms. And ladies, do you have any other comments that you could add to that? If folks are concerned that they can't use telemedicine because they don't have a smartphone or they don't have a computer? Michelle, do you want to take that one? - [Michelle] Sure, if they don't have a smartphone or a tablet or a computer, I would kind of follow what you stated, Kendra, I would contact your provider and see what other options they may have available. Especially during this time, I know that providers are being very creative on ways that they can interact and work with their patients Especially during this period of time. Yeah. - [Kendra] And I think if it's something that's emergent or super urgent, the providers are making arrangements to see the patients in a safe manner. I don't think they're going to turn you away or not care for what you need. That's why we're trying to promote as many of these resources and tools as we possibly can in order for our members to and the community in general to know that these tools are out there and available to use. And like you said, they're easy to use, once you get the hang of it. It's just that initial fear of trying it and downloading it to see how it works and what it can happen. Let's see if there's any other questions on here. The telehealth visits are covered by insurance as well. It'd be just like you were going to the doctor, they would bill just as a doctor visit, so that's important to note. And we have a couple questions on here about upcoming appointments, one lady did not give her callback info, so I will comment on that, the MyHealth Support Line, the UPMC Support Line for this type of stuff, the phone number is (1866) 884-8579 that's the MyUPMC Support Line. So if you're having issues about upcoming visits or you're not sure, that's the number to call for those types of questions. If you're looking for assistance in this app or downloading it or getting information on how to download it, we can provide you with that. You could call your concierge, and if you've also asked the question today, we will have someone following up with you within the day. It will most likely be today 'cause we have team that's ready to go and to address these questions that we have. So if you have asked a question today, you can look forward to a response of some kind within the next few hours. Michelle, were you going to make another comment? I feel like I cut you off. - [Michelle] I was just going to say that to veer off a little bit of what you were talking about with the payment piece. The payments do vary based on your insurance, but I believe the range is anywhere from $5 to $50 depending on what type of insurance you have through UPMC. I've done several of them myself and I think I've only paid about $5 for each one. But again, that will vary. And if you're unsure, I would also call your provider and ask them that question, or as Kendra says, maybe contact your concierge. - [Kendra] Yes, that's a really good point on the copay for the visit. And it would be according to your plan. So as your plan varies, it would be the copay that's associated with that. Well, I want to take one more look at our poll before we wrap up. So after today's talk, it looks like 65% of you would consider using telehealth after listening to today's presentation. So I think that that was a success, ladies. Wouldn't you agree? - [Ellen] Yes. - [Michelle] Definitely, that's great to hear. - [Kendra] Great job! And I want to tee up our next episode which will be episode seven of our staying in touch series. And it's taking care of each other, we will be talking about caregiving and that will be presented by myself and Shannon Miller, one of my colleagues from UPMC Health Plan. And we'll talk about caregivers and their needs. We know that caregivers provide care to family members, or loved ones in many ways. A caregiver may handle everything from buying groceries to managing finances and medical appointments. Although it is very rewarding, it can also be very challenging and stressful at times. So Shannon and I will talk through the signs and causes of caregiver stress, how to effectively manage it, and how to thrive and get support in your caregiving role. Which now more than ever, those resources are needed, so we appreciate the time that our listeners have given to us today. And we thank you ladies for your time presenting on this very important topic. And we look forward to hearing from everyone again on Tuesday. Thank you everyone for a great call. - [Michelle] Thank you. - [Ellen] Thank you. 