 Today's military makeover is brought to you by nbkc Bank and the Navy mutual aid Association. We're back for the final episode of military makeover operation, the crosure family, and man is it a doozy. Art, today is the final reveal. Yeah I can tell you're excited, but doozy is that we used to say when you were a kid back in the 18th century. Art have you seen what Jennifer and Ryan have done to this house I am pleased as punch. Please as punch? Gunny when you come up with. Hey you give them Gunny a hard time, I could be pleased as punch. It is a duzzy art, a whopper groovy doodle do, you should apologize to the Gunny. Finally some people that understand and appreciate me, Art you are one misguided pilgrim. See what I mean, misguided pilgrim where you come up with this stuff. Why don't you all go back to work get out of here, this guy at pilgrim, everybody knows what that means We put together a great makeover for the. Crosier family. It's a push to the finish so we can bring them home. NBKC Bank has given us key support and inspiration. Rebath has finished a stellar master bath remodel. Wheel window Mart's donation of doors and windows to another vets inspiration. Rainbirds set up an irrigation system that will practically operate itself. Goodman hv AC solved some long-standing heating and cooling issues. Always willing to give without a second thought. Choice cabinet, the Air Force Academy helps make it all happen as we look at their incredible mission. During the makeover Ford put the Crozier's in a new 2017 Explorer. AT&T set the family up with new cell phone's. Zeke's friend and congressman, Kevin Yoder supported our mission and seeking us out looking to help in any way. Friends, neighbors, and family, Kansas City really lives up to its reputation for generosity. We're in the final stages to wrap this makeover. Next a little test of the samsung wise net security cameras. Hey Ryan what's going on in there bud. Nothing working all day, what have you done? He's trying to play smart with me but we'll see how he does with this. How about a little barking dog. Hey Ryan how do you like that? I'm gonna throw you in a dumpster. I like this, right for my phone I can keep an eye on Ryan very cool Samsung. So this is the part where we pretend we have a handle on everything. Okay what are you working on? Chris and I are down in the basement working on the shop in the studio in the petition wall in the building. I'm working on trying to get a fourth everything in that we've done as much as possible keeping all of our donation items coming in and murals go up, curtains are growing up, all of the stuff that's going to go on the shelves ready all the furnitures being delivered and it's going to hang out somewhere and I always think like this is the part where it looks like utter chaos. And we're not gonna make it. It's good, it's good, we have this totally under control. Supporting the makeover is the Navy mutual aid Association. Craig we talked about Navy Mutual's mission and your role in educating all of your members as to the importance of life insurance and financial planning talk to me about the mission specifically. My father does two missions, educated service members and their families financial security and we help our Navy Mutual members obtain government benefits that they're entitled. But you break it down and simplify everything. Navy Mutrual provides broad range of presentations, but I give you an example. The survivor benefits plan that's a government basically a government life insurance that at the time of them active-duty military member goes to retire you have to make a decision, and that's important decision with them and their family, there's a lot going on during retirement, so we try to break that down and have them make a well informed decision. Well you know it's valuable, it's worthwhile, and we thank you for being a part of our military makeover. I appreciate, it it's good to be here. Thank you. We're laying sod outside, while inside the final push is on for the Crozier's return. Our nation's military academies are some of the finest universities in the world and they have forged an officer's core to lead a military that has no equal, the young people that attend these academies are our nation's best getting there is not easy, but the rewards are great. The faculty here at the Air Force Academy is composed of approximately 70% Air Force officers and about 30% civilian faculty members like myself, so that mix turns out to be very synergistic. And the interaction between the two just creates a very dynamic teaching environment. We have people who have deployed to all portions of the globe and they've networked all over different bases to different commands and they bring back that operational experience with them and that's something that I don't think your typical civilian professor as your typical civilian University can bring in. So we kind of work together to make it exciting to make it appropriate to make it important every lesson has to count here, I came here because I knew that all of my students put their hands at the beginning and volunteer to give everything for their country. The Academy is not only developing leaders for the military, but leaders for the nation. (Music) Hey Jason take a look at the truth cabinet install here, Ryan has done a great job how you doing buddy. Good what's going on. Good to see you, hey you know Jason from choice cabinetsenits. Everything looks great. Well listen, we've got a lot of work still to do but your choice cabinets went in without a hitch right. Without a hitch every time. What we call it, transitional design. It has the look of a shaker and has a like flat edge profile on the outside, but they're all there are also a few steps on the inside of the door. Which is really really nice, just adds that little touch of detail that goes along with what Jennifer's doing here it's sort of a contemporary rustic modern mix, farmhouse kind of feel. And this was super important to Lacy so to see that we were able to do that and give her everything she wanted, she's going to be ecstatic I'm so excited. Great job Ryan appreciate your help, Jason good to see you again. Good to see you. listen all right handshake here we are would you sign a peace treaty. Our amazing interior designer Jennifer Bertrand and her team really pulled out all the stops. Coming in with donations and unique pieces of furniture the Jennifer matched to Lacey and Zeek style. Oh my god so exciting. Gunny this makeover has been massive they're still sawing hammering, we got to get this reveal going all right, you ready? Waiting on you pilgrim. Oh man. [music] It's time, here come the Crosier. They haven't set eyes on their home for 10 days, gunnies favorite part of the show. Look at all these people! Zeek how are you buddy. Lacy Hi. How about the Crosiers. So take a look at all the beautiful landscaping that we did outside. Zeek, never going to have to water this lawn again. Rain Bird came in and put in ground sprinklers all throughout the lawn. It's worth mentioning that Samsung gave us security cameras for all around the house. Look at the door! I love it. it is cool! Do you like your new front porch? It's amazing awesome it is beautiful. What a pleasant surprise, hey you guys what's happening. Its the Gunni. How are you guys. Are you excited. Good to see you guys, now I'll tell you what Art why don't you make yourself useful for once okay and show these nice folks around their new home. I'd be happy to do that Gunny. This was your old flooring that we sanded down stained it. oh my god I can't believe that these are our hardwood floors. Yep notice all of the reclaimed wood a lot of this wood is over a hundred years old. Oh my god it's beautiful. And because you all love horses so much Jennifer incorporated a lot. I love it, oh my gosh. You notice the new furniture as well. Yes. I mean. I said we got you a new front door here's your old one. Are you kidding me. Jennifer repurposed this into a bench, I know Jennifer's gonna want to know, she couldn't be here what do you think of her design she melded the modern farmhouse. She friggin nailed it. Notice there's no more wall here right. No wow. And where's where's the guy that made that happen. Where is he cuz I gotta give him a really big hug. Here comes Ryan. Oh my god. So Ryan was our general contractor on the job, you've met him. So obviously we got rid of the wall, really really wanted the breakfast bar we was able to do that. You got a new stove but what kind of stove is that? Oh my god is gas wood. Brand-new kitchen cabinets, Choice Cabinets provided those for us. Look at the tile backsplash too. It's gorgeous. I think it's worth noting, I feel a nice cool breeze right here. Goodman came in they rehooked and reconnected everything, the kids rooms now that we're not connected upstairs are now connected, they put insulation in the Attic because you are losing all sorts of heat going out through that roof throwing that's all been taken care of. All right guys so remember the family room. Oh my gosh and my pony oh. And look who it is congressman Yoder. Thank you man. You're an inspiration, this is great you're an inspiration. We got your Congressional Record here, got our picture together, we've got all of your achievements Awards. This is all I wanted this is awesome I mean this is this is amazing. Were proud of you, man, your whole country's proud. This means everything. So glad its here, it's not collecting dust affairs I mean it means something. These things should be displayed and I didn't expect it like this even if I like everything else was more important. And of course Jennifer's touch, the sunglasses. The aviators. Yup. How about some bedrooms? All right you're here is your refuge. Oh man. All new paint. Oh my gosh. All new furniture. Where did all this space come from. I don't know where all the space came from this is this is beautiful. What would a master suite be without an ensuite bath. Are you kidding me. Oh my gosh. This is all compliments of Rebath. Oh my gosh this is amazing this is amazing. All right Gunner, here you go. Oh my gosh gunner. Oh my god oh my god oh my god. And the Kansas City Royals gave you memorabilia and in all sorts of goods. The Hosmer shirt what. It's what I wanted. Awesome. Gunner, do you see what's right here. What is that. That is awesome. This is amazing. I love these baseball's. Yeah this was, I mean Gunners room is completely transformed. Oh my gosh! Look at that Oh my gosh look at the flag on that Chase, and look at your headboard bub, oh my god. Okay again No baseballs in the house right. You love it? Oh my gosh I'm so happy bub, this is awesome. This is when Cisha is here, this will be a nice comfortable space, now I told you there was a surprise here right. Oh my gosh. This is a signed baseball from the Kansas City Royals. Okay. Here closure family, the Royals would like to invite the family out 2017 Royals home game of your choosing. We love the ballpark. So listen lacy yes you've been driving around in this explorer for nine days right. Yeah I have. What did you think of it? I I loved it, I mean all of the bells and whistles and everything in it, I like the leather, I like the convenience, the extra seats so if you can separate the kids, and in the back like there's these little push button things for the seats go down. Well Zeke because of your sacrifice to the country and your love of your family Ford wants to reward your unstoppable spirit by letting you keep the car. Zeek and Lacey are receiving a 2 year lease of the beautiful new 2017 Ford Explorer curtesy of Ford. We are so happy that everybody is here this is this is so much it's really really overwhelming but in such a good way. I can't thank anyone enough for all the support, very grateful. Listen guys we could end the show right now and it would be amazing right yeah, but we're not going to end the show right, follow me. [music] So I want you to take a look at this Overhead Door did a brand new garage door for you, and your friend Kirk Source he made it all happen for you. And it's one whole door. So we used to call it a basement right. Oh my gosh. But now we're gonna call it your art studio. Oh what a quickie dink. Oh my gosh. You have a saw room. Now it's a real man cave I wrap. You know this guy Chris. We did a lot of things down here, we try to give you everything you wanted. I know that the fumes from your Hipoxi and resent were an issue, so you have 150 CFM sent to the exterior. LED light lock. You now make your drawings. Oh my gosh. Awesome, thank you. I would never feel comfortable inviting a customer into my house. Down here, I say they come look at your project and the current progress on when I'm working on. I feel kind of uninviting someone down here now, you guys are incredible. Robert Tankersley new at the bit okay You know whats so awesome me is at the gunny is carrying a plac. Are you happy with it? I love it. I love it Thank you brother. I kind of feel awkward right now because your wife's not here but your wife commissioned a piece and wanted, I believe she wanted to be here to give to you as well but she she ordered all this and I know you made this frame for myself but it went along with the lake of the ozarks, she customized this and wanted to give this to you for your birthday, you have a birthday comin up. I do. There you go. I mentioned that I'm not good at accepting gifts or things. the only way I know how to show my appreciation or thanks is to to give back in my own personal way. I want to present this to the Military Makeover and wherever you guys want to put it. That's beautiful man, thank you very much. So what do you think Art. Gunny I think you and I we did it once again, another Military Makeover in the books. Another one, victory. Take a veteran to lunch right. Yeah take a veteran to dinner. I'll take you to dinner Gunny let's go. Can I use your credit card again. No you're taking me. Ill take you, I'll Drive. Yeah okay. Today's Military Makeover has been brought to you by NBKC Bank, proudly serving our country veterans as a top va lender, and by for supporting those who serve learn more at Fords salute those who served dot com. 