 We are connected in ways we’ve never been before. Twenty years ago, pay phones were still on nearly every corner — and if you owned a cellphone, chances are you left it in your car full time. Ten years ago, “uber” was just an adverb — not an app for finding a ride home. Even five years ago, live video chatting from a mobile device was a relative rarity. But technology is constantly evolving and upgrading — bringing us all closer, all the time. VA has been there through this rapidly changing environment — not only adapting, but leading the way with cutting-edge technology that has expanded access to care for Veterans. Our virtual technologies have provided tools to manage and receive health care, share health records, communicate with health care team members, and more. Our vision for Connected Care is clear: End-to-end integrated and connected care for Veterans, their caregivers, and VA care teams. We are bringing the latest technologies, such as wearable devices and sensors, patient health portals, mobile apps, and home monitoring systems, to extend access to health information and support when and where it is needed. Imagine the daughter of a Veteran who is struggling with macular degeneration and confined to a wheelchair. We want to give that daughter the power to schedule appointments for her father — and then attend them virtually with him, from the comfort of home. We want to give Veterans the power to hold virtual appointments with their providers, both before and after surgeries. Imagine showing a surgeon the progress of your wounds, and your healing, without getting off the couch. And we want to give primary care providers the power to quickly refer patients to nearby specialists — and even introduce them through video conferencing. We are excited about the future — excited to create a virtual care environment that is Veteran-centric, easy to use and access, and convenient. We will continue to meet Veterans where they are, putting them in control of their health care with just a click of a button. For as much as technology changes, our mission will always remain the same: delivering the best care possible to our nation’s Veterans, when and where they need it. 