 Hi, this is Meg White, managing editor of REALTOR® Magazine, and I’m just back from an exclusive tour of the New American Home, which is the model home that the National Association of Home Builders creates for their annual Builders Show. The association constructs a complete home every year in order to demonstrate best practices, leading concepts, new materials, and innovative designs to the tens of thousands of home builders at its annual conference each year. That’s why I’m always sure to check it out every time I’m at the builders’ show; it’s influential and we’re likely see some of these elements popping up in new construction in communities across the nation. This year the show is set in Orlando, and the New American Home is actual split into two: one is a remodel, and one is a brand-new build. Both structures are located in the nearby Lake Nona Golf & Country Club community. First, let’s be clear. There’s a ton to excite every person who tours the New American Home every year. I’m sure many would appreciate the Jacuzzi donut hole inside this infinity pool or the room dedicated to serious golfers. But I wanted to share three of the larger trends I took away from visiting both of these homes. Trend #1: Fire Non-wood-burning fireplaces have gained traction in the marketplace over the past few years, but at this year’s show builders are using them as a way to signal the locations that are designed for people to gather and linger. The nice thing about these newer versions is that they’re coming down in price nowadays and the ventilation needs are super minimal, so it’s easier than ever to add a fiery focal point to an existing home. Trend #2 : Textures I’m not sure if this is the replacement for the waning subway tile, but it’s certainly a lot more visually interesting. Some of it almost has a retro wallpaper vibe. Any it’s not just tile either; you can’t feel it but the the texture of this bar top is almost like a rough leather, even though it’s as hard as stone. This room, which was in the remodeled home, layers on so many great textures with the multiple levels of daybed couch lounges that I think it’s a great example of how to do this style well. And check out the way the designers repeated the pattern on the ceiling in this wall of niches in the living room of the remodeled home. Trend #3: Pendant lights with industrial flare and mixed metals Both of the New American Homes had these great statement pieces everywhere from bathrooms to kitchens to stairwells, and they were just breathtaking ways to draw your eyes up. Not only are the designers using mixed metals and cool industrial touches, but they also mix up the colors of glass and bring out some of the moody grays and blues you see in the countertops. Well, that’s it for our tour of the New American Homes. We’ve got a lot more from the 2017 International Builders’ Show to share with you in the coming weeks, so stay tuned. 