 [Music] Here on designing spaces were all about smarter solutions for your home. So when one of our viewers had questions about the latest innovations in home appliances we just had to help her find the answers. Joining me today is Erin Coley, a busy mom, teacher and entrepreneur. Erin good to have you here! Thank You Debbie! So tell us a little bit about yourself and why the interest in smart appliances? Well first off I have four kids, not counting my husband. I am a teacher, I have a master's degree in education and I combined my love for theater and for education and I created a children's theater company. So I need to work smarter and faster, not harder so I need my appliances to keep up with me and be efficient. I think we all do. You know what I think we're in luck because when it comes to innovations and appliances there's one name that has been doing it for over a hundred years. Wow! Kenmore, and today we are so lucky because we have Kenmores Executive Chef and spokesperson here today so let me introduce you. Kari Karch! Hi! So Erin and I were talking. A lot of people have those questions, smart appliances what does that mean? Well you're in luck Erin, because today it's all about Kenmore smart appliances like this refrigerator right here. It's connected to our Kenmore smart app to make it much better, more efficient just for you. To our phones? Yeah! So you have an app on your phone and in fact right now I've actually just refilled the ice without you knowing just from a tap of your phone. From your phone? Yeah, from my phone. I have to see that! So right here is our slim indoor ice maker. Oh wow! And there's our ice! Oh that's amazing! Just from my smartphone! That is amazing. And on top of that if you've got some fish or some leftovers from the night before I can be alerted that I need to change out my air filter in here. Come home, do it at night. Oh that&#x2019;s really nice because that smells fresh. That's because the max air filter actually removes strong odors from your refrigerator and it can monitor the temperature right here from your phone. Oh that&#x2019;s really good! But wait for it. There's a lot more including the air crisper and slide away shelves. If you leave your refrigerator open there will be an alert sent to your phone. That's a good alert! And it'll alert you if there's a power outage in the house! Yeah that's really important. That is smart! Kenmore smart! Okay but wait, you said smart appliances. So they have refrigerators, water softeners, water heaters, air conditioners, and washers and dryers. Washers and dryers? I do laundry all the time between my family and the studio costumes. I literally have the washing machine going 24/7. Well actually with the Kenmore Elite Smart washer and dryer you can do your laundry with a lot less hassle. Wow that would be amazing. Yeah that's really good, no more waiting for the washer or even having clothes sit in standing water all day. And one good thing about that too is that you can pre-schedule any of your loads from your phone. Really? Really. So when damp clothes sit in the washer bacteria can really build up so if you're like me and you forget to change the laundry you end up with smelly wet clothes in the washer and wrinkled messes in the dryer. But with the Kenmore Smart laundry pair you can get alerts that tell you how much time is left on a load and when the cycles are done. Plus you can even start wrinkle guard cycles remotely so no more wrinkles and no more damp clothes that need to be rewashed. Wrinkle guard that is a smart cycle and a lot less hassle. Yeah actually with the Kenmore Smart washer and dryer pair there are 14 different options of cycles to choose from. And you do it all from here? All from here and actually see right there. You can connect your appliances to Amazon Alexa? Amazon Alexa connects all Kenmore smart appliances and the great new news is the Kenmore brand is available at Sears or on Amazon. Amazon dot com? Yeah! That's amazing! And Kari thank you so much for being here today and sharing your very valuable information with us and also our Designing Spaces family! Thank you, I had so much fun today! Oh good, I think we did too right? Yes, this was so much fun! Thank you! and if you want to be even more amazing with Kenmore products just visit Kenmore dot com forward slash smart or you could always visit our website at designing spaces dot TV! Thanks for joining us and remember, be amazing! Bye for now. [Music] You can visit these websites to learn more about the participants on this edition of Designing Spaces 