 Hi everyone, my name is Dennis and today I'm going to be reviewing the Amazon Echo and the Google home. So I listened to both of these things. One I put in my basement this one's actually in the kitchen so I probably use this one a little bit more but that said I use them for similar purposes; listening to music, setting timers, seeing what the weather is. And that's generally what they're the best at right now. I know that each company is trying to turn it also into a personal assistant; to be able to buy certain things, be able to tell it to put something on a calendar however it's not there yet. Ok, so let's talk a little bit about what it does best; it's a speaker, right, so they both work pretty good as a speaker the Echo might be a little bit better; it's bigger, it's heavier, it has maybe a deeper sound. But both of them sound very good and they fill up probably a 1-2 rooms full of music at a pretty decent level. Alexa play REM radio on Pandora Alexa: Getting your REM radio station from Pandora. (music plays). Alexa stop. You can see they both have microphones and then the microphones do a pretty good job at picking up even though their sound coming all over the place. However they do it, it just it seems to pick it up and you could be in another room and still yell at it and it will listen to your voice and hear what you're saying. Hey Google, play Dr. Dre radio on Pandora. Google: All right, here's the Pandora station called Dr. Dre. (music plays). Hey Google stop. It just gives you an idea. It also sets timers pretty good. Hey Google, set a timer for two hours. Google: Sure two hours; and we we're starting now. Right, and it will also play the weather nicely. Alexa, what's the temperature in New York City? Alexa: Right now in New York is 85 degrees with partly sunny skies. Today's forecast has intermittent clouds with a high of 86, degrees in the low of 62 degrees. Also it will connect to (both of them will connect to) iHeartRadio so you can listen to radio stations from around the world you can play different music services this Amazon Echo actually has Prime music so if you already subscribe to Amazon then you can get your free shipping and you get a certain amount of music. The catalog is not as big as the Google catalog, but the Google catalog cost I think it's about ten dollars a month in order to be able to listen to unlimited music. So that's kind of the trade-off but they're both very solid in what they do, and they're very convenient that you can get all of this stuff hands-free. They both have apps. I'll show you, give you an idea, of what the apps are a little bit later on. I'll show that on this screen and you know they're both learning, they're both evolving, they're both from the cloud they have cloud applications and you don't have to do anything, it just kind of will learn. You do have to enable the apps to work on your at least on the Amazon Echo for Google it seems like a little bit of that that kind of goes on in the background, more so, where you have to go to a specific app and you have to you have to let Echo learn that skill and then you'll have to use some keywords in order to make that skill actually materialize Where I think the biggest misses on these things is that they're supposed to be a personal assistant and I don't find them to be that helpful. So I might say set a reminder for to load the car in two hours and Alexa will have no idea what to do with it. Google does not have any ideas and cannot put it into calendar. I assume that these skills will eventually come but for now it's just not there. The other thing is there's there's certain inconvenience in the fact that if you say Alexa it pops on and it might start saying I don't understand what you're talking about same thing goes with Google however you gotta say ok Google. So that pretty much wraps up my conversation about these two pretty good speakers. And so, what do I think about them? If I had to pick well first let's just talk about from a speaker quality. I think Echo's a little bit more sturdier. It sounds a little bit better. At the same sound level, I find that it's a little louder. I like the recognition back so as I'm playing music when when when I ask a question; what's the weather, set a timer the response is a little bit crisper It's easier to hear the response in return. So I'm going to give that advantage over to the Echo. From a price perspective 180 versus 130 so I'm going to have to say the Google wins. In terms of the voice of the speaker itself; they both talk to you. I again will probably have to say I like to Echo a little bit better. I know sometimes, depending on what you ask, the voice on the Google will sound a little bit better than the voice on the on the Amazon. However, in general I'd have to say I go with the with the Echo. In terms of web searches however, I'm definitely going to give the advantage to Google. I can ask it a lot more questions and get a response back whereas on on the Echo it does have a tendency to say, I'm sorry I don't understand that question. From a design perspective, if you just look at it, I'm gonna have to say that this the coloring, the black coloring, the, I don't know, the way I can actually turn the volume up and down with this, versus having to spin it on like this virtual wheel over here. I think I prefer the the Echo for for that. In terms of what they can do, Amazon has a lot of applications. So it definitely has a leg up on Google however, Google will probably catch up what I will say, even though I'll give the win to the Echo, I will say it's not so intuitive. You have to remember certain words and certain phrases in order to get those applications to work. As well as you actually have to enable the skill to get it to happen. So while I'm giving the win to the Echo, it's probably something that might change if, you know, you're a year down the line, two years down the line, once Google has more experience and their their belt on this. Let's see, in terms of the microphone, I can pretty much say from across the room anything to either one of them and it seems like it's got this multi-directional microphone which picks up the voice. So I haven't had a problem with either one of them. So I'm going to have to say it's probably a tie when it comes to that. So, you know, you factor it all in, the Google may wind up being a little bit more intuitive. There might be a little bit more of an infrastructure between some of the other Google products that they have where you may say that the Google speaker will eventually be better. But right now, with all the things that I'm assessing it on, I think I still like my Amazon Alexa Echo speaker the best. So that's my opinion hopefully this helps and that you are able to make a decision from it. Alexa: Thanks for watching if you liked what you saw hit the like button and don't forget to subscribe Google: Also please leave your comment Alexa: Winner, Amazon Echo 