 [Music] This episode of designing spaces is brought to you by ADT. Your home it's a sanctuary, more than just shelter, it's a place to retreat to after a long day's work. A place to be with family, it's also the most valuable of treasure chests containing personal items that don't come with a price tag. Each year over four and a half billion dollars worth of belongings are lost due to burglaries, and the damages these intrusions cost but there is a way to significantly increase the safety and security of your home and that's just the beginning. I will introduce you to the Whitaker family and show you how the latest technology and home security can help them live life a little more fully. We are going to deck out this home with a state-of-the-art in home security system. I'm security expert Natalie Morris and this is a special edition of Designing Spaces. Smartly connected home makeover. Meet the Whitaker's dad Jason is a commercial pilot, his job often keeps him on the road for days at a time leaving mom Jennifer to keep track of the kids and the daily household activities. When I'm out of the country or out of town I do worry about the kids and Jennifer to make sure they're safe and secure. While their eldest daughter Brooke is away at college, Jen still has her hands full with Meghan, Sam, Aaron and of course there's Thor. It is a safe neighborhood, it's all layers and peace of mind you know, we had with the windows and the dog and the gate it just adds to your, because she says I am overly protective, and it's just a nice feeling that the family is secure, when I&#x2019;m away. My main worry I think these days is just you know the kids, it's great when they drive but you are constantly have that fear you know when they're not with you. And then coming back home you know alone like that and the dark you know it's always on my mind. With Sam and Aaron I do have concerns with them also because sometimes they get dropped off with them getting into the house with the keys and stuff like that I haven't really given them keys yet so they use the garage code the lighting is not great and I would prefer you know that I could actually see that area when they're when they're coming in. [Music] Coming up I'll meet with the Whitaker's to understand their security needs and to hopefully help them find a system that will give them peace of mind. [Music] [Music.] Welcome back before the break we met the Whitaker's Jason, Jennifer, Megan, Sam and Thor. So what time does Sam come home today? About 3:30. 3:30? And you're picking them up? No, you're picking up. I&#x2019;m picking them up? Okay 3:30. At school. which Is where I come in. Good morning. Hi, how are you? I&#x2019;m Natalie. Hi, I&#x2019;m Jason nice to meet you. Come on in please. We were invited into the home of Jennifer and Jason here in southern Florida and we wanted to discuss some of their concerns about managing their family. Jennifer this is Natalie. Hi Natalie, nice to meet you. Pleasure to meet you, thank you so much for having me. Come sit. Sure. Thank you very much for having me. Appreciate it. Your home is lovely. Thank you very much. Yeah this is a really big space though I, I can see why you'd want to speak about security. Absolutely especially with the kids, we've got four kids. And two are driving now so that always adds that extra concern so. It seems like you're probably busy. I&#x2019;m a mom of four kids, ones away at school college, and then I have three home and Megan's a junior. Philo! Wow! She's in the play at school, she does drama, she drives and she's always going out as well, I have Sam who is in 9th grade and he plays laccross and he's got laccross practice, he's got to go to gym, he's got training real early in the morning. Got Erin she's 12 and you know she's pretty much, I drive her everywhere. She does cheer, she&#x2019;s doing basketball, she does acting classes. Wo we're busy. I don't know how mom does it. Three different schools, a bunch of different hobbies, she's running around everywhere. It's a lot of moving parts. Right. It's hard to keep track of everybody at one time. Yeah. Yeah and when you're on the go is it easy for you to understand what's happening at home or is that a concern? Not usually, I&#x2019;m asking her every morning what's going on today? Uh-huh, so where do I need to be? who do I need to be picking up? That's when I'm home. Right. When I&#x2019;m away. The safety is a huge concern especially when I'm on the road knowing what time the kids are coming in, if she's out with Erin and doing something. What time is Megan coming home? What time is Sam gonna be back if he's out. And what are some others concerns just about the safety of the home? So just them being here I guess and using you know everything that I would be doing but not having an adult here to watch them. Right. It's nice to be able to have eyes on a different part of the house. I agree yeah, it&#x2019;s eyes and also to be able to hear too. Right if I can hear like the doorbell. It&#x2019;ll be great to control the system from a mobile device. Right, and see while you're away what's happening, right? Absolutely. When I do land the first thing you do is turn my phone on and if I can't connect immediately with Jennifer I would like to have some peace of mind that I could look and see the video feeds that the doors are closed and my family is safe and secure. And what about service repair people? Like if you have a delivery or someone to come work on the house how do you manage that into your schedule? A lot of times you just leave it at the door. Mm-hmm. And they run because we have a dog Thor and he will bark and bark like crazy so. Oh yeah? To be able to see it you know on my phone if someone was coming because sometimes we just come in through the back we don't use the front door you know not every day so. Well would you like to show me around the house? I would yes. Okay. Your home is so lovely. Thank you. How long have you been here? About six years. After meeting with Jennifer and Jason I had a good idea of what they needed so I invited a representative from ADT to check out the Whitaker home and give us their opinion too. So I've invited Kimberly she's from ADT and she's going to show us around and give some suggestions. We chose to go with ADT because they have really streamlined all of these different pieces of home security, not just from whether or not someone's breaking in or coming in the house. So here you go this is Megan's room. It&#x2019;s a lovely room. As you can see two big windows which makes me a little bit nervous. We have actually sensors that would give coverage on the windows. So she can't sneak in and out. For sure. Kimberly was able to walk through the house and explain everything that we could possibly need to keep our house protected. So you can head out back to the living room area, let me know what you think. So this would be a great area, we put a motion detector as a secondary so obviously we'll cover perimeters and then we'd had the motion here as well as our monitored life safety device. All right. So when I first came to Jennifer and Jason's home I noticed some of the vulnerable spots around the home. This is the kitchen area. Here would actually be a great area where we would put our heat detection. Oh okay. You have 24/7 monitoring on the heat detection that would cover if there's any fluctuation in heat it will definitely alert. Oh that&#x2019;s nice. And go straight to our monitoring stations and then we'll reach you. I noticed you have an Alexa over there. Okay. I do yes. So with Alexa we actually incorporated with ADT so you can use your system using the voice features. Oh wow. You can turn on and off your system, you can actually make voice commands for your system even for your light features. Oh to like turn the lights on? Oh wow! She can use the Alexa to actually unlock and lock the doors, so if the kids are coming home and you see them coming in the driveway and be able to do that as well. So I know based off some of your needs I think I have a good handle of what you're looking for. Okay good. Kimberly is a pro at figuring out the needs of her clients and pinpointing vulnerable security areas. So now that we've had a chance to do a thorough evaluation of the Whitaker home, it's time for Kimberly to do a security analysis. We spoke a little bit about video, I would like to be able to see when they're coming, when they're leaving that kind of stuff. Real time. Yeah, no we'll keep eyes on all the children for you, well as you'll have remote access on your phone as well. Okay, excellent. So and that goes from our ADT Pulse app so you and your husband both can have the app as well as the children. People think of ADT is just an alarm system but it's so much more than that now they're monitoring the air quality, the lights, they're automating schedules they're providing live feed of your home video cameras, so it's great it's really a total smart home solution and rather than just an alarm system. But what are some of your concerns? My main concern is really when Megan comes home, she parks on the other side of the garage and I would like to be able to see that. Watch her coming in and you know maybe lights come on something you know. When we place the cameras we will have it on a feature where, when Megan pulls up in the driveway the motion will be detected you will automatically turn on your cameras not only that the video camera itself is a 30-second video clip but it also will allow the lights to go on. One of the great things about ADT is that they're going to choose the best products for your home because they have specialists who are used to looking at different kinds of homes because what works with one family maybe doesn't work for another. You can have alerts to your phone. Okay. So when each door opens or if there's a window that opens in the kids room at night so you know exactly where it's coming from, one hundred percent. And then while your daughter comes home you'll not only get the video clips but we can also have it to set for your locks to unlock and lock. Okay. So she doesn't have to remember to close the doors at night. This is a big home so there's a lot of windows and doors. Windows by bushes and trees can make any home vulnerable, those can be you know huge hiding spots for people and then in the front we can put our ring doorbell, the ring doorbell is a great feature that we have. Yeah I&#x2019;m excited about that. So what will happen is when someone walks up to your home or not only if they if they don't even press the button, it will capture it. Correct if someone walks up then you will get that text alert letting you know that there's motion at your front door. And you can set the distance with which you get alert. Yes so we would incorporate the ring we spoke about our heat detection our smoke detectors as well we will be covering smoke detectors through your home which they're monitored 24/7 whether your alarm is on or off. Oh wow, okay. So if there's any smoke any heat we will be contacted directly, immediately we'll be calling you, as well as the authorities if need be. when there is something to be concerned about like a smoke alarm or a break-in there's someone on the line to help you 24/7 so that someone will call you they'll say is everything okay and if it's not they know who to get to help you. The pole system that you're gonna have is integrated you'll be able to incorporate it your your Alexa as well as we will have our touch screens here so it's really open to where you can see everything right in front of you. We have our ADT portal so your portal that will be you can customize it directly from there meaning all of your settings for times. So your times for auto opening your door and closed, as well as your cameras for automation to turn on and off your lights. What good is a smart home if it's not a safe home? so I think we are all set I'm gonna mark all our notes for what we spoke about and then and I will relay all our information to our technician. Okay. I'm excited. Coming up the installers arrive and I get to live out my squad goals. [Music] [Music] Welcome back, before the break we met Kimberly from ADT, she took a close look at the Whitaker's home inside and out and presented them with the perfect plan for their family and now their ADT Pulse installation is underway. While the guys were working hard, Erin and her squad arrived for practice. [Cheer] Hi, I&#x2019;m Erin, and this is my cheer team. Was supposed to be a JV and varsity team but we didn't have enough varsity so we combined it into one huge team so there's lots of different grades on the one varsity team. We have a lot of fun because that's a huge team. While mom Jan is overseeing Cheer practice, dad Jason is checking in on the installers and he seems impressed with the progress. Back to the main board, this here is going to be your radio transmitter. This reports back to the central station. Right. For monitoring. We've got an army here of ADT technicians here today, well it's a huge project they're doing the cameras, they're doing carbon dioxide sensors by the garage, doing the heat sensor in the kitchen, they're doing smoke monitor smoke detectors throughout the house, five cameras I believe outside, two cameras inside, motion detectors inside, so it's a huge project and they're gonna do it all pretty much in a day, it's very impressive. While we wait on the installation to be complete here's a tip from ADT about home security. When it comes to peace of mind ADT has got you covered with the power of ADT pulse you can set an automation using your HD pulse wireless cameras and automatically receive a video clip or snapshot via text or email this will notify you when someone or something important has arrived. If your alarm goes off not only will you get a call from one of ADT six state-of-the-art monitoring stations but you will also receive a video clip from your HD pulse wireless cameras. Now that peace of mind. The Whitaker's are ready to step into the future with the help of ADT and me time to see how all the features work. So she's gonna take you through a tutorial of all of your new services so ask any questions and we'll show you, just quickly. If you look here you can actually click on your lights. See that little button right there? Go ahead and press it. You just turned on your back patio lights. At the touch of a button, that&#x2019;s amazing. So if we go back here we're going back into where your doors are, this will show coverage and sensors see how its labeled we have your bathroom, bedroom, the kid's bedroom. So we also have the garage area. To keep track of coming in kids in and out windows opening and closing, not being shut properly, it comes to where you actually need extra eyes and ears sometimes, so getting those text alerts with the system that we're putting in this house I think will really be a great benefit for Jenn. And it'll show all the functions for opening closing those windows and doors. So it has the times that they open and close? Yeah correct. So if that window opened in the middle of the night you have some questions to ask. Yeah that&#x2019;s right. Got some explaining to do. Absolutely. There are such distinct areas of the house that have different concerns so she was able to address those right away I think she understood what the family's routines are. These are your doors as we mentioned for their locks you have your remote lock so you go ahead and we can click just on this so at the click of the button I just locked your front door. Oh wow okay. Nice. And the last one I'll tell you if you go ahead and press there's a green button there you can go ahead actually right here. Okay I'm gonna arm it right? You&#x2019;re going to arm it. So you arm to stay meaning you're gonna stay in the house you&#x2019;ll be safe. What about setting schedules is that easy to do? She can set the schedule okay she'll be able to go into her ADT portal and now she can automate and put all her schedules in. Okay and then when he's landing from a flight late at night he can look in and say oh my family is locked in to stay they're all safe for the night they're good. That would feel amazing. Absolutely. It's a challenge and it's a challenge for everyone so I think these solutions will really help you know plug in the gaps when you can't actually be there in person. And will have the same functions from our phones and mobile device. 100 percent. You can use that in any device. So you're actually all set. Thank You Kimberly it's been great. It seems so seamless they seemed very comfortable with it nothing felt too overwhelming and they felt like they would be able to explain it to their kids and work it into their lives immediately. Have you ever had anyone go into your home and have to give them your alarm code or even the keys under the doormat? Might as well have a sign saying burglars welcome with the power of ADT Pulse those days are over simply arm and disarm your security system remotely from anywhere in the world using your smartphone, tablet or computer, but wait the door is still locked, no problem simply press one button from your ADT Pulse app to open the door remotely. [Music] This episode of Designing Spaces is brought to you by ADT. All right you guys are on your own, you think you can take it from here? I think we can. Thank you Natalie. Ok good luck! It was so nice to meet you and your beautiful family. Thank you, Natalie, thanks for coming. Feeling well soon. Thank you. Good luck with your game and with everything. Appreciate it. Safe trip. All right. Save travels. Alright, there'll be no shenanigans in this house. Now thanks to ADT this is a smart home and a safe home. Hi mom. Hi mom. Hi guys. How's school? Good. Good. It was really simple to show the kids how to use the pulse ADT app because actually when I first started they were already clicking on everything and kind of figure it out how to do it themselves. They installed everything today and it's really neat and now I can see you everywhere. Erin loves seeing herself on camera loved the fact that the family room is now going to be constantly monitored so I mean I think she probably had like a love-hate relationship with it because apparently she has some sneakiness. All right so click on, click on cameras. My brother and I are like really good at pranks and they're usually they used to be on my sister Brooke but they're usually involving Meghan now cuz Brook&#x2019;s gone. Yeah there's the back patio one, the back pool area. Hey that&#x2019;s us! Now I can see you in the kitchen. That's gonna be an issue. And daddy can look and check us all out. Home automation, security, and 24/7 monitoring. Now that's peace of mind. It's Saturday morning and the Whitaker's are cheering Sam on, always on the go Meghan has to leave early but mom and dad want to make sure she knows how to use her new ADT app. Email address. So Meghan you know how to do it right? I believe so, yes. So we just when you get home, what do you do with the alarm? Turn it on. Turn it on there you go. All right. Even though Meghan had no trouble disarming the alarm and unlocking the door when she left the house she forgot to turn on the alarm, so it was easy just remembered I turned it back on, I got on my phone and armed it so it's an awesome feature to have and now I feel very comfortable with that my house is secure and I can stay here you know and watch all his games. [Music] Now that the Whitaker's have 24/7 home monitoring and security with ADT they can rest easy knowing their home and Thor are safe and sound no matter where they are. For more information on what you saw today go to designing spaces dot TV. Thanks for watching this special edition of Designing Spaces smartly connected home makeover. [Music] [Music] 