 From smart phones to smart TV's to smart living, the evolution has created technoligies that has touched every aspect of our lives. Changing the way we live, work and play. It's no wonder smart homes or a house with a lot of interconnected devices, is on the rise. But integrating some of these products can make many of us feel anything but smart. The Cardozo family knows this feeling all too well. I love technology but what really frustrates me is I want to sync up all my smart products under one platform. That's the most frustrating part for me. I use technology for so many aspects of my life, which makes it really convienient but the thought of setting up automated system on my own or with him. It kind of overwhelming and I really don't have time for that. So three products that I would like to integrate into my home is, a monitoring camera, an automatic door opener and an automated light switch. Tech expert Steve Toby from TESCO Technologies a leader in wireless communication technologies says this level of frustration is pretty common with many consumers today. Traditionally a lot of have consumers require professional installation to install a lot of these products. when you look at a home that has mulitple lights and multiples doors throughout the home, can be an inexpense proposition. So with this smart product some of the issues that you can have is the compatability concern They may not be aware as to whether it connects with their smart phone or it's compatible with their existing WIFI network, bluetooth or maybe there's a propriety standard like zigbe or Zwave. And so there can be a lot of confusion or apprehension to encounter when looking at connected products. To address consumers concern in the market place TESCO provides a variety of smart technology designed to be user friendly and conveniently managed from any smart device. I've done some research on these products in the past and its' either it's too complicated or too expensive for me to install. I finally found the ability to get all of these installed. It wasn't complicated, it wasn't hard, I was able to get the automatic door lock, video camera and automatic light switch installed not hard, not complicated not expensive. For the consumer, they can simply download an app, pair them with their devices and existing technology of wifi and Bluetooth allowing them to very easily interact. The smart products are proving on enhance productivity, increase efficiency and give the cardozo piece of mind. I always have my mobile device with me and it makes it alot simplier with the automated system. When a person comes to the door I don't have to fumble for my keys because I am always carrying groceries or taking care of the kids. So the door opens automatically and the lights turn on automatically too and I can see who is my front door when I am at any room in the house. "Siri, please unlock the door?" "Siri(of the front door is unlocked" (Music) Our connected home products address several areas for consumers, including: home security, home convenience and home efficiency. These products allow them to save money buying more efficient homes that have a more secure home environment. So what we are seeing is a lot of growth and interest from the device operating system and the companies that make the smart phone. Investing a lot of resources into the technology for connected home eco system. By doing so this opens the door to more consumers, to easily adopt the technology. It will be alot more attractive to them in the coming years. Creating a connected ready home needs to be seamless and thanks to TESCO today's home owners can enjoy perfect connectivity in a twenty four seven mobile world. To learn more about smart home products visit TESCO dotcom or to watch this segment of the show again visit designingspacesdottv (Music) 