Business   Overview NetApp®, Inc. (NetApp, we or us) provides software, systems and services to manage and store customer data. We enable enterprises, service providers, governmental organizations, and partners to envision, deploy and evolve their IT environments. Customers benefit from our collaboration with other technology leaders to create the specific solutions they need. We were incorporated in 1992 and created the world’s first networked storage appliance. Today, we offer a portfolio of products and services that satisfy a broad range of customer workloads across different data types and deployment models. Customer Needs Customers continue to seek IT solutions that help to improve efficiency, lower risk and position them to respond quickly to growth opportunities. In an increasingly mobile, social and digitally connected world, they also need access to real-time insights and have the ability to personalize the experiences they deliver to their own customers. NetApp provides guidance and innovation to help its customers achieve the right balance of flexibility, cost and data control.  Chief Information Officers are embarking on IT transformations to improve the efficiency of their businesses and better serve their customers. Cloud computing has emerged as a way to more effectively meet rapidly changing business needs. Customers want to seamlessly integrate public cloud resources as an extension of their internal IT environment, an approach known as hybrid cloud. One of the biggest challenges to this vision is data management. While other parts of the IT infrastructure are largely interchangeable and carry no history, once data is created it needs to be protected and managed for its lifetime. As data grows, data and application mobility consume more time and bandwidth. The net result is that data management, NetApp's core competency, has become essential to realizing the promise of the hybrid cloud.  Data management on the hybrid cloud today is essentially a series of isolated siloes. IT organizations need to harmonize the management of data across all cloud providers, as well as on premises. This is what we call the Data Fabric. Our Data Fabric strategy defines the NetApp technology architecture for hybrid cloud. Today, we offer solutions that help customers seamlessly manage their data across their diverse IT resources, spanning flash, disk, and cloud. Customers have the flexibility to choose the right set of resources to meet the needs of their applications and the freedom to change them whenever they want. Customers are entirely in control of their data, regardless of the cloud that it sits on and regardless of the landscape in which it is deployed. At the same time that customers are navigating through their IT transformations, which leverage modern architectures and hybrid cloud environments, they are also reducing IT budgets, looking for simpler solutions, and rethinking how they consume IT. This evaluation is diverting spending towards transformational projects and architectures like flash, hybrid cloud, converged infrastructure, and software defined storage. It is in these areas that our Data Fabric strategy gives us an advantage. Flash. Flash plays a key role in customers’ IT transformation efforts as they seek to gain advantage through greater speed, responsiveness, and value from key business applications, while substantially lowering total cost of ownership. All-flash array technology is becoming the de facto technology for primary application workloads as customers look to realize performance and economic benefits by replacing hard disk installations with flash. With a highly differentiated and complete portfolio of all-flash array offerings, NetApp is well positioned to enable customers to accomplish this transition. Hybrid Cloud. NetApp believes that the hybrid cloud will become the dominant model for enterprise IT for years to come. Customers are attracted by the speed and scale benefits of the public cloud but need new data management capabilities to keep control of data as it moves beyond the walls of the enterprise. Our Data Fabric strategy enables data management that seamlessly connects disparate clouds and data centers. We enable our customers to manage, secure, and protect their data across flash, disk, and public and private cloud resources, all at the scale needed to accommodate the exponential data growth of the digital world.  Converged Infrastructure. Due to budget constraints and skill imbalances, our customers need greater support from their technology partners to evaluate, integrate, deploy and sustain the sophisticated solutions they need to stay competitive. This trend is driving the demand for converged infrastructure solutions that reduce the time of deployment and lower integration risk. NetApp offers compelling business value through our FlexPod® converged solutions, which reduce risks in ways that cannot be matched by the proprietary stacks offered by server vendors. FlexPod offerings, created in partnership with Cisco, provide a broad range of reference architectures.  Software-defined Storage: As customers replace their traditional storage architectures and transform their data centers, they want scale-out and software-defined storage functionality to both manage data growth efficiently and deliver service provider-like flexibility. Clustered Data ONTAP provides this through a highly efficient, multi-tenant, non-stop shared storage infrastructure to replace legacy, stovepipe architectures for enterprise applications like database, virtualization, VDI, and e-commerce. As customers plan their hybrid cloud architectures, the software defined architecture of clustered ONTAP provides a consistent way to manage data across public and private clouds, regardless of underlying hardware. 5  Product, Services and Solutions Portfolio Our data management and storage offerings help improve business productivity, performance and profitability, while providing investment protection and enhanced asset utilization. We complement our enterprise-class storage solutions with services expertise that maximizes the business benefits our customers gain from deploying our products. In fiscal 2016, we focused on our Data Fabric strategy and the strategic solutions that form the foundation of how we enable customer success in the data-powered digital era.  All Flash Arrays All Flash FAS In June 2015, NetApp introduced a new all-flash series, the All Flash FAS, which is the only all-flash system to support seamless data management across flash, disk and cloud resources. This capability makes these systems ideal for customers who want to boost performance in their traditional data centers while mapping out their move to a hybrid cloud model. Built on years of flash innovation and experience, the NetApp All Flash FAS 8000 (AFF) series delivers high I/O at consistent low latency without compromising on core enterprise requirements, such as robust data management, efficient data protection, and flexibility to respond to changing customer needs. These systems are ideal for database, VDI and server virtualization applications. The AFF series incorporates FlashEssentials software optimizations, which increase flash performance and efficiency. FlashEssentials is included in the ONTAP operating system, which underpins the Data Fabric, AFF models can be ordered as standalone systems and in FlexPod as a converged infrastructure validated designs. Professional services, delivered by NetApp or its partners, help users identify those workloads that are best served by all-flash systems.  Since its introduction, the AFF array line has become one of the fastest growing products in NetApp’s history. We announced a smaller footprint AFF model in September 2015. New software efficiency technology and higher capacity drives for the AFF line were announced in November 2015, making it possible for customers to get the performance of flash at the price of disk.  EF-Series The NetApp EF560 all-flash array targets applications that demand extremely high levels of performance, reliability, and availability. These systems allow customers to improve the user experience for customer-facing and decision-support systems and reduce their power, footprint and cooling requirements by 95% versus disk-based arrays.  Requiring just 2 units of rack space, the EF560 all-flash array combines extreme IOPS, microsecond response times, and up to 12GBps of bandwidth. Its enterprise-proven availability features include redundant components with automated failover, intuitive storage management with comprehensive tuning functions, and advanced monitoring and diagnostics with proactive repair. Customers can initiate NetApp Snapshot® copies and remote replication for subsecond backup and long-distance recovery.  NetApp SANtricity Plug-Ins for Microsoft, Oracle, Splunk, and VMware provide a consolidated view of the NetApp EF-Series systems, enabling users to monitor and manage their NetApp EF-Series storage from the application. Having such an integrated tool reduces the total cost of ownership by eliminating the need to manually compile critical information from several different tools.  SolidFire In February 2016, NetApp completed the acquisition of all-flash startup company SolidFire, Inc., which when combined with our existing all-flash offerings, allows us to offer the industry’s broadest portfolio of all-flash solutions. SolidFire systems target a new class of customer who is masterminding the next-generation data center and wants cloud-like capabilities from their on-premises storage for greater flexibility. These users place a priority on the ability to scale simply and seamlessly.  The SolidFire all-flash platform solves the challenges of resource allocation, simplified management, and application predictability at scale. The platform includes SolidFire SF Series hardware and Element OS software, which combine to enable flexible, independent scaling of both capacity and performance so customers can guarantee performance to thousands of applications on one shared storage system.  With SolidFire systems, customers realize the agility, efficiency, and scalability benefits demonstrated from cloud computing in an on-premises system that is highly available and easy to control. They can reduce cost and complexity by safely consolidating mission-critical applications onto a single storage platform. Deep infrastructure integration contributes to greater productivity, while deep automation capabilities enable dynamic, rapid allocation and tear down of storage resources for on-demand provisioning. Hybrid Arrays NetApp hybrid flash storage serves customers who want the option to deploy the speed of flash storage where they need it while using more affordable hard disk drives (HDDs) to address capacity requirements. NetApp hybrid arrays include the FAS series of unified storage systems and the E-Series of block storage offerings. 6  Converged Infrastructure Backed by one of the most successful alliances in the industry, FlexPod over the past five years has become the converged infrastructure of choice for many of the largest enterprises around the globe. FlexPod is a portfolio of pre-validated, integrated infrastructure solutions that combine the Cisco Unified Computing System integrated infrastructure and NetApp storage components. Today, customers and partners can choose from more than 100 validated application and infrastructure designs. These solutions are designed and validated to reduce deployment time, project risk, and the cost of IT. The FlexPod portfolio includes FlexPod Datacenter for core enterprise data centers and service providers, FlexPod Express for medium-sized businesses and branch offices, and FlexPod Select for data-intensive workloads. The portfolio is validated with leading hypervisors, operating systems, systems management tools, and cloud management platforms.  Data Management Software Data ONTAP Storage Operating System NetApp’s Data ONTAP operating system software is the back bone to building a shared storage infrastructure and Data Fabric for the full breadth of business applications, data storage and protection requirements. NetApp introduced unified storage more than a decade ago with the industry's first unified SAN and NAS scale-out storage software. Today, customers use NetApp clustered Data ONTAP storage operating system as the foundation for data management across flash, disk and cloud storage resources. Customers can maintain control of their data across the hybrid cloud through consistent processes, features, and data management tools, regardless of where their data resides. In June 2015, NetApp added to the capabilities of clustered Data ONTAP with FlashEssentials, a set of integrated technologies that increase flash performance and efficiency. This includes a flash-optimized read data path, inline compression, and zero-based inline deduplication. In November 2015, new inline deduplication capabilities were announced that extend the life of flash media, especially for customers with VDI workloads. In storage test scenarios, NetApp has demonstrated the ability to reduce capacity requirements by as much as 30:1, enabling customers to transition to flash using less storage and driving down overall cost. This update also included the Copy-free Transition capability, which allows customers to shift from earlier versions of Data ONTAP to clustered Data ONTAP with in-place data conversion. In early fiscal 2017, we expect to launch the latest release of ONTAP software, which will be called NetApp ONTAP 9. It will simplify customers’ IT transformations to modern data centers and hybrid cloud environments. Customers can choose the architecture of their choice, (engineered systems, software-defined storage, or cloud,) all with industry-leading efficiency, performance, and density for flash environments; rapid and simplified deployment; and greater data protection and security. With this release, we also expect to change the naming framework for our Data ONTAP operating system to a single family name for the product (ONTAP). The ONTAP 9 product, which will run on AFF and FAS systems, will replace what was formerly called clustered Data ONTAP. ONTAP Cloud for AWS will be the new name for Cloud ONTAP. In addition, we expect to introduce NetApp ONTAP Select, a software-defined deployment of ONTAP that will run on commodity servers. SANtricity Storage Operating System The NetApp SANtricity operating system provides superior performance, reliability, and data protection for application-driven workloads that run on NetApp EF-Series and E-Series platforms. It allows customers to optimize performance on the fly, with adaptive caching algorithms to achieve high IOPS and throughput. Installed on a million systems worldwide, the SANtricity OS is field-proven. In addition, SANtricity Storage Manager offers a powerful, easy-to-use interface for administering E-Series storage systems. With SANtricity software, storage administrators can achieve maximum performance and utilization of storage through extensive configuration flexibility and custom performance tuning. The newest release of the SANtricity OS, announced in April 2016, is optimized for the new generations of data analytics applications.  SolidFire Element Operating System The NetApp SolidFire Element OS is at the core of every SolidFire infrastructure and is optimized for the key storage requirements of a next-generation data center. Scale-out functionality enables seamless and granular growth to meet business demands by adding capacity and performance for each new business. Customers have complete control of utilization performance to optimize their infrastructure by managing performance independent of capacity. With automated management, IT organizations can respond to business demands rapidly with on-the-fly adjustments. Helix data protection provides assurance for workload and data consolidation. Always on deduplication, compression, and thin provisioning maximize total cost of ownership by driving down requirements for storage space and power costs. Object Storage Software NetApp StorageGRID® Webscale software allows organizations to store and manage massive amounts of data worldwide, on premises and in the cloud. StorageGRID Webscale is a purpose-built, patented, software-defined storage solution for large archives, media repositories, and web data stores. The sophisticated StorageGRID Webscale policy engine provides automated data placement  7  across storage tiers, physical sites, and hybrid clouds. It can be tuned according to customers’ performance and availability requirements and optimized for cost as data ages. Real-time auditing provides continuous and active monitoring for service-level agreement verification and reporting. NetApp enables support for Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3) as a storage tier to StorageGRID Webscale, providing a scalable, highly durable object storage solution for long-term archives.  Backup and Data Protection Solutions NetApp offers a range of products to protect customers’ valuable data and applications. These provide optimal availability and IT efficiency while safeguarding data assets. AltaVault® Cloud-integrated Solutions In May 2015, NetApp introduced AltaVault, previously SteelStore, cloud-integrated storage solutions and services, which provide customers with the ability to quickly backup data to any cloud at up to 90 percent less cost than on-premises solutions. AltaVault can send data with ease to NetApp StorageGRID Webscale object storage software and most public and private object stores, providing durable, cost-effective, private cloud archives at web scale. In October 2015, NetApp was one of the first partners to announce support for Amazon S3 storage through integration with AltaVault. This gives customers an affordable option for cloud storage that can be quickly accessed. With AltaVault, customers have the power to tap into cloud economics while preserving investments in existing backup infrastructure and meeting their backup and recovery service levels. AltaVault is offered in three deployment models to meet customer needs. AltaVault physical appliances are often deployed in the data center to protect large volumes of data. These datasets typically require the highest levels of performance and scalability available. AltaVault virtual appliances, with support for VMware and Hyper-V, are an ideal solution for medium-sized businesses that want to get started with cloud backup or for enterprises that want to protect branch offices and remote offices with the same level of protection they enjoy in the data center. AltaVault cloud-based appliances on AWS and Azure are designed to offer an efficient and secure approach to backing up cloud-based workloads. Companies without a secondary data center or those looking for a low-cost tertiary recovery site also can use them for disaster recovery purposes. NetApp Integrated Data Protection (IDP) Solutions NetApp Integrated Data Protection (IDP) Solutions, embedded within the ONTAP operating system, ensure customer data is available when and where it’s needed. Customers can scale their NetApp data protection capabilities across applications, virtual infrastructures, and cloud architectures.  With IDP, customers lower their cost by purchasing and maintaining fewer systems for data protection. They benefit from controlled data access with secure multi-tenancy and military-grade (AES-256) encryption and proven key-management solutions. In November 2015, NetApp announced SnapCenter software, a new offering that helps enterprises simplify management of application-specific data protection at scale. Enabling efficient copies is a key element of data protection in the hybrid cloud, spanning backup, restore and disaster recovery of primary data. The new software allows customers to consolidate and centralize the backup and cloning of multiple applications and multiple servers into one efficient operations center. In March 2016, we added incremental improvements to support not only SQL applications, but also Oracle Database on Linux. Business Continuity and High-Availability Solutions include: ·SnapMirror® data replication technology which provides disaster recovery protection and simplifies the management of data replication. SnapMirror for SVM adds the functionality to replicate NetApp Storage Virtual Machines (SVM), enabling customers to establish consistent replication policies for all volumes within an SVM. ·MetroCluster™ continuous-availability and disaster recovery software which delivers zero data loss, transparent failover protection, and nondisruptive upgrades at distances up to up to 300km. Disk-to-Disk Backup and Recovery Solutions include: ·SnapVault® software which speeds and simplifies backup and data recovery, protecting data at the block level. ·SnapRestore® data recovery software which uses stored Data ONTAP Snapshot copies to recover anything from a single file to multi-terabyte volumes, in seconds. Application-Aware Backup and Recovery Solutions for Application and Backup Administrators include: ·The SnapManager® and SnapDrive management software family which streamlines storage management and simplifies configuration, backup, and restore operations with deep application integration. 8  Compliance includes: ·SnapLock® compliance software which is a flexible data permanence solution for meeting strict data retention regulations or internal IT governance policies. OnCommand® Management Software and Management Integration Tools The NetApp OnCommand storage management software portfolio incorporates a broad range of data management tools for NetApp and multivendor storage. These products help our customers’ transition to the hybrid cloud. They improve visibility and allow customers to manage, monitor, and optimize their hybrid cloud environments. The portfolio includes: ·OnCommand Cloud Manager which provides a simplified management interface for NetApp Cloud ONTAP service and NetApp Private Storage (NPS) for Cloud solutions. It allows customers to manage and track cloud resources within AWS, and provision and monitor Cloud ONTAP instances from one central console, including establishing replication relationships. ·OnCommand Workflow Automation which improves productivity by automating repeatable manual storage-management processes. It enables users to construct, customize, publish, and activate a broad range of storage workflows, including one-click automation and deployment of applications from VMware®, Oracle®, Microsoft®, SAP®, Citrix and others. It lowers the cost of storage management while fostering the use of best practices. ·OnCommand Unified Manager which provides a single dashboard to confirm the health of clustered Data ONTAP storage availability, capacity, performance and data protection relationships. It integrates with OnCommand Workflow Automation to automate storage tasks and data protection processes. ·OnCommand System Manager, developed for midsize organizations or smaller environments within larger enterprises and service providers, which delivers device-level management for NetApp AFF, FAS and other ONTAP based storage systems. It is optimized for IT generalists who need streamlined management, an easy-to-use interface, and best-practice workflows. ·OnCommand Insight storage resource management which provides end-to-end multivendor storage management, with a view of performance metrics, including application, datastore, virtual machine, and storage infrastructure performance. It enables customers to improve capacity planning, accelerate consolidation projects, and meet internal business reporting expectations. This innovative tool also allows users to discover orphaned and underutilized storage and detect risks to their environments.  FlexArray® Storage Virtualization Software FlexArray software enables FAS8000 systems to virtualize existing EMC, HP, Hitachi, and NetApp E-Series arrays to unify and streamline IT operations. It helps customers implement a software-defined storage strategy across heterogeneous storage assets by accelerating provisioning and data management. Customers can transform existing arrays to create storage that spans private, public, and hybrid clouds. It reduces capacity requirements on arrays by more than 35% and increases the usefulness of current storage.  NetApp Private Storage (NPS) for Cloud NetApp Private Storage for Cloud is a family of enterprise storage solutions that lets customers use multiple industry-leading clouds and maintain complete control over their data on dedicated storage systems from NetApp. In this approach, customer data resides on NetApp storage “next to”, rather than “in”, the cloud provider’s environment. The customer-owned NetApp system is co-located in data centers managed by our partner, Equinix, which has data centers located next to major networks and in close proximity to major cloud providers including AWS, Microsoft Azure and IBM SoftLayer. NPS for Cloud eliminates time-consuming, costly data migrations. Customers can turn off connectivity to one cloud and connect to another in minutes, without having to move their data. OpenStack® Contributions NetApp is a Gold Member of the OpenStack Foundation, a global collaboration which supports the creation of an open-source cloud operating system. OpenStack is a global collaboration of developers and cloud computing technologists producing a ubiquitous open-source cloud computing platform for public and private clouds.  Cloud services based on OpenStack software, in particular those for enterprise applications, require a robust storage infrastructure that is available, efficient, and protected. NetApp storage integration with OpenStack makes deployment of cloud services simpler, faster, and more scalable. NetApp drivers for OpenStack reduce the integration burden for IT departments deploying cloud services and enable high-value services and tight service-level agreements. 9  Professional and Support Services NetApp and our ecosystem of partners deliver a full portfolio of professional and technical services that enable customers to achieve greater business value from NetApp products and solution investments. Our professional services team and certified services partners have the expertise to assist customers with each phase of their IT lifecycle, from planning next-generation storage systems and deploying new technology to optimizing the operational efficiency of existing infrastructures. Technical support services ensure our products operate efficiently and benefit from the most up-to-date software to help customers minimize downtime for systems running business-critical applications. Our services organization also provides in-depth guidance and education that include extensive access to our global technical resources and intellectual property. Customers can choose from a number of support options including direct touch, web-based My AutoSupport® service, training on our product and solutions and an active online community of customers. NetApp utilizes a global, integrated model to provide consistent service delivery and global support during every phase of the customer engagement, including strategy, assessment and analysis, planning and design, installation, implementation, integration, optimization, ongoing support, and remote management and monitoring. Sales, Principal Markets, and Distribution Channels We market and sell our products in numerous countries throughout the world. To increase visibility of NetApp in the broader IT segment, we continue to make investments in our multiyear branding and awareness campaigns. Our diversified customer base spans industry segments and vertical markets such as energy, financial services, government, high technology, internet, life sciences, healthcare services, manufacturing, media, entertainment, animation, video postproduction, and telecommunications. NetApp focuses primarily on the data management and storage markets. We design our products to meet the needs of our broad customer base – from large enterprises to midsize customers. NetApp uses a multichannel distribution strategy. We sell our products and services to end-user business customers and service providers through a direct sales force and an ecosystem of partners. We work with a wide range of partners for our customers – including technology partners, value-added resellers, system integrators, OEMs, service providers and distributors. During fiscal 2016, sales through our indirect channels represented 77% of our net revenues. Our global partner ecosystem is critical to NetApp’s growth and success. We are continually strengthening existing partnerships and investing in new ones to ensure we are meeting the evolving needs of our customers. As of April 29, 2016, our worldwide sales and marketing functions consisted of approximately 5,260 managers, sales representatives, and technical support personnel. We have field sales offices in approximately 45 countries. Sales to customers Arrow Electronics, Inc. and Avnet, Inc., which are distributors, accounted for 22% and 19% of our net revenues, respectively, in fiscal 2016. Information about sales to and accounts receivables from our major customers, segment disclosures, foreign operations, and net sales attributable to our geographic regions is included in Note 16 – Segment, Geographic, and Significant Customer Information of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Seasonality We have historically experienced a decline in revenues in the first quarter of our fiscal year, as the sales organization spends time developing new business after higher close rates in the fourth quarter, and because sales to European customers are historically weaker during the summer months. During the second quarter of our fiscal year, we have historically experienced increased sales, driven by the government sector, concurrent with the end of the U.S. federal government’s fiscal year in September, as well as an increase in business from European markets. We derive a majority of our revenue in any given quarter from orders booked in the same quarter. Bookings and revenues typically follow intra-quarter seasonality patterns weighted toward the back end of the quarter. Backlog We manufacture products based on a combination of specific order requirements and forecasts of our customers’ demand. Orders are generally placed by customers on an as-needed basis. A substantial portion of our products is sold on the basis of standard purchase orders that are cancellable prior to shipment without penalty. In certain circumstances, purchase orders are subject to change with respect to quantity of product or timing of delivery resulting from changes in customer requirements. Our business is characterized by seasonal and intra-quarter variability in demand, as well as short lead times and product delivery schedules. Accordingly, backlog at any given time might not be a meaningful indicator of future revenue.   10  Manufacturing and Supply Chain We have outsourced manufacturing operations to third parties located in Memphis, Tennessee; San Jose, California; Guadalajara, Mexico; San Antonio, Texas; Schiphol Airport, The Netherlands; Komarom and Tiszaujvaros, Hungary; Wuxi and Tianjin, China; Taoyuan City, Taiwan; and Singapore. These operations include materials procurement, commodity management, component engineering, test engineering, manufacturing engineering, product assembly, product assurance, quality control, final test, and global logistics. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for materials, as well as several key subcontractors for the production of certain subassemblies and finished systems. We use multiple vendors and have our products manufactured in a number of locations wherever possible to mitigate our supply chain risk. Our strategy has been to develop close relationships with our suppliers, maximizing the exchange of critical information and facilitating implementation of joint quality programs. We use contract manufacturers for the production of major subassemblies and final system configuration. This manufacturing strategy minimizes capital investments and overhead expenditures while creating flexibility for rapid expansion. We were recently recertified to International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 9001:2008 and ISO 14001:2004 certifications on October 8, 2015, and continue to be ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 certified. Research and Development We conduct research and development activities in various locations throughout the wo