 Hello everybody! I'm Gleb and this is my 5G course  on "Understanding IoT" channel. Today I'm gonna   briefly touch such interesting topic in 5G such as numerology. So, what does it mean numerology,   for what reason we have to use it in 5G NR and  how exactly does it work? Basically numerology   is when we have different subcarrier spacing,  is when we can configure different cells with   different subcarrier spacing and, as a result,  we can have different symbol duration. So, we   can adapt even physical layer in 5G NR for different use cases, for different quality of   service requirements. As you can see from this  table with narrow subcarrier spacing we have   pretty huge symbol duration and cyclic prefix  duration as in LTE, by the way. And it helps us   to mitigate, to combat inter-symbol interference  and, as a result, have long-distance cell size. But   it affects negatively on speed and latency because  scheduling mechanism operates in time domain. And   as we have such a huge symbol duration and  just ten slots per subframe scheduling works not   so fast. So, with narrow subcarrier spacing we  can have large cells to cover huge areas, rural   areas, let's say. And we can implement it, we can  implement such applications such as Internet of   Things applications, let's say. And opposite  things, when it comes to wider sub-carrier spacing.  With wider subcarrier spacing we have  very short slot duration, symbol duration.  Because we have a huge amount  of slots per subframe and it helps scheduling   works faster because it works in a time the main.  So, it affects positively on latency, latency   becomes lower and speed we can configure with much more high throughput. But  it affects negatively again to cell size with   wider subcarrier spacing we have we can configure  only small cells. So, as you can see the there is   a kind of trade-off between different use  cases and requirements. By the way in   5G with wider subcarrier spacing we can create radio equipment with lower phase   noise, especially it's good for high bands, high  frequency bands. This low phase noise   can help us to have high signal-to-noise ratio.  So, again it affects positively on speed as a   result. So, as you can see it is kind of  a trade-off between speed and cell size   between inter-symbol interference and latency.  5G is all about flexibility we can even   have a flexible physical layer for different,  different use cases, for different requirements.   And that's by the way goes hand-in-hand with  such topic as bandwidth part concept where we   can have different subcarrier spacing within each bandwidth part. Bandwidth part is when   user equipment doesn't have to work with the whole cell band   UE can support only a part of bandwidth. And these different bandwidth can have   different subcarriers spacings and of course can  be used for different use cases. So, it becomes more   interesting and interesting time. And I guess that's all for today, that's enough with   that such quite interesting topic. If you have  any question you can e-mail me, you can find any   links and my e-mail address in the description  of my channel. So, stay tuned, like and subscribe! 