 Hello everybody! I'm Gleb and this is my 5G Course on "IoT Understanding" channel! As for today we   going to talk about 5G Base Station Architecture.  We're going to talk about 5G decomposition   and centralization concepts. For what reasons  mobile industry decided again come back to   that concept, trying to split base station in  many, many details or sometimes an opposite way   to centralize base station as it possible. So, but  before we start I just want to start with history.   Because in GSM, the first GSM stations, BTS was  fully distributed radio in terms of in terms of   radio protocols. Because all encryption,  all radio protocols terminated inside this base   station and BSC controller in 2G network is  used only for controlling these stations.   And it was not so cost-effective because these  huge hardware stacks base stations cost lots of   money and such base stations should have been deployed in  in a large number. So this is not a cost effective   when all radio terminates in one place. When it  comes to 3G, 3G NodeB was only kind of L2   base station, only physics layer and MAC. Other  protocols, the radio protocols and part of MAC   protocols terminates into RNC controller.  RNC handle all of these radio protocols in   3G. But it was not so effective in terms of speed  and latency, mostly speed at that time. So, when   HSPA came, some functions  from controller again moved back to NodeB.  In Lte - distribution wins again! In Lte we have Baseband  unit with higher layer processing and protocols, we   have Radio Unit only for amplifying, for receiving  information and we have antennas with feeders and   other equipments. But maybe five or seven years  ago emerged new type of antennas. Now we have   the active antenna units. I mean, just antenna plus Radio Remote Unit. It is in one box. But in   5G you can decompose your base station even  more than before. 5G Base Station may consist   of central unit, central unit for control layer  processing for handling such protocols as RLC   and PDCP. Control Central Unit for User Plane  to handle the SDAP Layer and PDCP-U. If you   want to know more about SDAP layer (this is a new  protocol in 5G networks) you can watch my video   here. So, this is basically Baseband  processing Radio Units and the   part of baseband was divided into distributed  units. Distributed units connected to central   units via F1 interface. F1 is just a reference interface  from reference architecture point. So, F1   control plane, F1 user plane and distributed  unit, and control unit basically supposed to   be located in one side, in one location. And in the distributed unit you can have a   connection to a radio unit one-to-one connection  or want many connection. So, this interface is F2.   F2 is running over enhanced CPRI protocol. CPRI protocol over fiber, for example. So, this radio   unit only for low physical protocols such  as amplifying, receiving information. And these   distributed units are for high layer protocols. For  such protocols that may be depended on latency. I mean in   terms of latency very important. And again distributed units may be on the same  position with Radio Unit in case of  some sensitive to latency cases. Not only with the central unit.  So, distributed unit it is a kind of trade-off  between capacity and latency. You can deploy   it as you wish and Radio units maybe as a part of  Active Antenna Unit, as I said before. So, this part   of base station we call it Front-haul as it used  to be before, actually. This part   sometimes you can hear such terms as Mid-Haul. But  in a common sense all of this we   call Back-Haul, from distributed unit to core  network. And of course there are interfaces N2   for control-plane, N3 for user plane and, in  case of the Dull-connectivity with Lte this S1   control plane and S1 user plane to gateways. Between central unit we can have an interface E1  in order to handle information between them. Some  information is related to PDCP or RRC layers.  Again, it's all about distribution! It is  all about different requirements for Front-Haul  and Back-Haul capacity, different requirements for  latency-sensitive cases. Because these distributed   units may be even considered as a part of Mobile  Edge Computing (MEC). Sometimes this may be on the   same side with these Mobile Edge Platform or  even as a part of that platform, as kind of you   know, kind of a real cloud solution. And as you  may see, all of this maybe   as a dedicated hardware, as a dedicated  equipment so from the point of view operators   and vendors, the more hardware  you have - the more hardware you can sell to mobile   operators. The more license, the more different  adjustment programs and software you have to use and   you can sell it to mobile operators and other  market players. Another advantage is if you have   different, different units for different things  and, if these units is dedicated hardware, you can   share or have a common with other operators  and market players. For example, you can share   your centralized unit user-plane or control-plane,  or all of these hardware servers. You can share   with other market players, you can have a common  mobile edge platform with your own dedicated unit   or maybe with only a part of function dedicated  unit as a function of that platform. But distributed units,   I suppose radio units, will be mostly used only for  particular operators as usual. So, as you can see   5G is more about flexibility. And so you can deploy your network as you wish.   But there are again kind of a trade-off between  centralization and distribution. For many cases   there are different requirements for Front-Haul for this enhanced CPRI interface or for Back-Haul  interfaces to core network. It's totally  up to deployment case. It was my short lesson   about 5G base station decomposition and centralization. If you liked this video - you can   like and subscribe for my next videos! Bay! 