 Hema Kadia: Hi, this is Hema from TeckNexus. Welcome to the 5G Tech Talk. Our today's topic is private 5G Networks and testing. For this session, we are going to talk with Adnan Khan, who is a senior manager for wireless and wireline market development at Anritsu. Welcome Adnan. Adnan Khan: Hi, Thank you very much, Hema. Appreciate it. Hema Kadia: Would you like to add a few words about your role at Anritsu? Adnan Khan: Yes, sure. So just to give you a little background Anritsu as a company has been out for over one hundred twenty-five years. So it's been there from the time of Alexander Graham Bell and many of us have roots in Japan. My primary responsibility at Anritsu is the development of strategic markets and identifying technologies to meet those strategic markets across the Americas region. And this includes both the wireless product, the wireless test products as well as the wireline products. Hema Kadia: Thank you so much Adnan for that introduction. For today's conversation will start with the high-level industry overview of the verticals investing in private 5G. Follow-up the conversation with Adnan on what are the 3GPP release features supporting private 5G. What are the different deployment modes? What are the testing challenges? And what are the solutions that Anritsu is bringing to the table for addressing those challenges for private 5G networks? So let's begin with the industry overview. So TeckNexus did recently thorough analysis of the private 5G enterprise use cases globally, as well as the spectrum winners for the mid-band and high-band frequencies. What we discovered is manufacturing is a key sector where we see a good amount of traction, both ongoing trials as well as ongoing deployments, from the enterprise perspective. Within manufacturing, the automotive manufacturing, the specialty chemicals manufacturing , and the industrial appliance manufacturing are the key sectors that are investing or deploying private 5G networks. If you purely look from the global private 5G enterprise use case perspective, then again, its manufacturing is the top vertical followed by transportation. Within transportation, the two key verticals are airports and the seaports, and the key drivers for both these sectors. One is the increased security. The second one being guaranteed quality of service or guaranteed SLAs. And third, being how they can bring efficiency to their day to day operations. If we move on and look purely from who are the spectrum winners globally, whether it is in Europe, whether it is in APAC or in North America if we focus from a CBRS spectrum recently, then the key vertical after manufacturing is the energy and utility sectors. Again, the key drivers for this sector are key drivers being one security, the second being the quality of service similar to transportation. And third, being real-time monitoring to support predictive maintenance. So that's a high-level overview of how we see the industries investing in the private 5G networks. So moving on Adnan, if we look from a 3GPP release perspective, what are the key features that would help us enable the private 5G networks. Adnan Khan: Sure Absolutely, to provide a quick background of 3GPP? We have it was primarily divided into phase one and phase two. Phase one being release 15, which got frozen when I said frozen mean all the core features that were supposed to be part of it. And the main use case was the enhanced mobile broadband that got frozen sometime in June 2019 and roughly a year from that this year, in July of 2020, we had release 16 that got frozen, and now the release 17 work is just going on. Right. So if you look at it with respect to the fact that the release 15 was all it has mobile broadband and it was a matter of just getting high throughput out and not much attention was paid to optimization of the networks, what are the other use cases that we could use that 5G as an underlying technology? And that is beginning to happen release 16. So there is a lot of work happening with respect to how can we optimize the devices, how can we optimize the networks and what are the key use cases which can use the underlying features and technologies are built into 5G, 5G being a lot different than 4G. As you rightly talked about earlier on, there are a lot of security concerns that that are a bit better with 5G. There is a lot of latency concerns that were there in 4G, but that would be basically subdued with respect to having it in 5G. And there is a lot of discussion with respect to the fact that you can get a much higher throughput and you can also use features like network slicing, for instance, whereby you can dedicate certain segment of your network across your core network, as well as access network to be able to meet the demands of of basically of the industry. All right. So as you see in the release 15 5G came on board, it's going to get adopted release 16 when things when the technology is adopted, the use cases will drive the technology to be different sort of use cases. And key thing you can look at is the NR in the unlicensed band for instance that is something similar we had in 4G whereby we had LTE, the license, assisted access, but that was primarily on the downlink. But now we have NR and you have much wider bandwidth so you can have standalone without any sort of an anchor in the NR unlicensed band. So that is mainly from the feature perspective. But if you look at it from well, from a technology perspective, also, there is a lot of items that are out there in 5G that pretty much were not getting 4G like, you know, basically, if you look at it, the physical layer of 5G and it's it's it's much more enhanced and introduces the amount of link latency that's there between the physical layer as you go onto the Mac layer, the RLC layer, the PDP layer. And then there's a new layer, SDAP which is service data application protocol. So that's some items like that. The numerology, right numerology is pretty much being able to transfer things much quicker. You can have a flexible basically subcarrier spacing. So in LTE you had a fixed 15 kilohertz of carrier spacing in case of 5G, you have FR one FR two that goes all the way up to a 240 kilohertz. So as you increase this subquery spacing, you have a lower short time to interval so you can send things really quick and short bursts. So that does reduce the battery life and you can get much smaller latency all the way when we're talking about sub milliseconds. So those are some of the features as well as the reliability portion of it. And using different kind of coding techniques like LDPC was one of the code encoding techniques that had been used, like the low-density parity coding that had been used to provide ultra-reliability, whereby you don't have to transmit a complete block in case of LTE you send a packet, the packet would if the packet gets lost. You have to transmit the entire symbol. Sorry. entire slot in this case, in case of LDPC, we won't have transfer. Only transfer the block, the fraction of the block that has been lost. Hema Kadia: So, so Adnan if we move on we know that there are 3 key deployment modes for private 5G, one being the public 5G, then network slicing would be the key capability, that we will be leveraging for segmenting the various use cases. The other two being, of course, the private 5G and the combination of public 5G and private 5G. So would you spend few minutes on helping us understand what are the key capabilities of each of the deployment and what are the pros and cons as it relates to the private 5G networks? Adnan Khan: Yes. So if you look at it, I mean, the key thing we're looking at when we have private 5G is to have sort of guaranteed coverage whereby, you know, you could have some underserved areas and you want to make sure you have good coverage. And again, network control is another one of them. So you can have different configurations. You know, there may be a certain sort of configuration that may not be available in a public network, and you can apply that on the private network. So it could be some sort of a robotic factory, for instance, and that would have different configuration requirements. So you have more control over that. And then you have other features like performance as well as security. So you can do better access management and better data connectivity. Right. So, again, from a deployment perspective, you have a public basically a public view of having 5G, private 5G. And when I say public-private 5G is basically you are actually using the resources from the public network like an operator may have, but that those resources are going to be dedicated for a certain purpose. So you could have a network slice, for instance, taken from a public network and dedicate that slice. So you have some guaranteed quality of service guarantee coverage, sort of basically guaranteed network control. But you apply you're using the public resources to meet the demand of a certain use case or a certain segment like a factory Industry 4.0. So that's that's one deployment which you're using for all public resources. Right. So and then the other one and these are the other one is going to be really you have some sort of an island deployment. You know, an island deployment would be something that it's it's very private, unlike a public, that your private 5G will be configured to the specific needs of that location. And those specific need can can vary from place to place and what the complete requirements are, what the scalability requirements are. So those are kind of divided into two different phases. You know, you can have you can have a private 5G that is a complete island by itself. And that island, meaning that it has its own core network, it has its own access network it has its own spectrum. It could be using the mid-band spectrum that you're talking about or it could be using some sort of an unlicensed spectrum, like we talked about the feature the NR in unlicensed band. So but it's completely isolated from any sort of metro network. Right. And there will be no kind of mobility. Everything will be intact. And the other form, you know, like a hybrid form of whereby, you do have this private network, but that private network has some sort of mobility with the macro network. So you could have some sort of the roaming agreement between a private network and an macro network. And an example, people walking into the factory. And as they move out, they could use the same sort of devices with the same sort of same credentials that were done in the micro private networks going on and transitioning into the macro networks. Right. So those are some of the things I can when you have a complete inland sort of private network, it gives you more control, you have less risk of intrusion, you have better security. And then as you go into some sort of a completely private network that is using a slice of the public network, in that case, you you have all the the built-in security, but you tend to have I think it's going to be a much lower cost because you don't really have to redeploy the network. The network is already there you just have to dedicate a certain slice of that network for a certain purpose. So it's a lower cost to go with some sort of a network slicing way of a private network. Right. And then the the hybrid, it comes in. It's going to be more expensive. However, it could be less expensive than having a complete inland sort of private in this case. As I said, you can you can use a lot of the core networks. We don't really have a core network. You could use the credentials that are there on the operator's core network or say for access management, for instance. Right. So the way I would envision it, completely inland private network is it's more cost intensive. And then you have the hybrid whereby you have connectivity with the macro network that is made and then you also have a completely using a slice of the network, the PLMN for the public land mobile network available, but using a slice of that for a certain purpose in a certain area. And that would be the most cost-effective way to start. Hema Kadia: Thanks Adnan. Sure. Adnan moving on, considering the complex deployments across all these three deployment modes frequencies, what will be the key testing challenges or the considerations, and also how Anritsu is, Anritsu solutions are addressing these testing challenges? Adnan Khan: Sure, so the testing challenges have pretty much begun from the time we had 5G started right about two and a half years ago or so as and the key challenges that we see over here are both on the network side as well as on the device side. Right of you. 5G introduces us to millimeter wave, which is having bandwidth in excess of one gigahertz, whereby when you're in LTE you're looking at maximum bandwidth bandwidth size would be a 20 megahertz channel. Right. And now you can have channels of one hundred megahertz and then they can be connected together, aggregated using the connectivity as well, using multiple resources. So it becomes complex, whereby the device and the network both have to support multiple ranges of frequencies, the wide bandwidth, shorter bandwidth, different subcarrier spacing and then different deployment modes. Right. So the key challenges again is, first of all, how do you develop such devices? And once you have developed the device. You want to make sure that those devices are performing well. And how do you ensure that the performance of the device or the networks meet your requirements, meet the standards, and first, the KPIs have to be properly defined and once those are defined, we need to have better ways of testing. And now this is a very cost-intensive market as you expand into 5G and you have to cater into millimeter whereby, you cannot really see the antennas on the device. They're pretty much embedded into the chip. How do you connect the device? But at the same time you have to test LTE is not going anywhere. You need to have interoperability with LTE as well as with 3G. Right. So currently there are no handover supported with 3G. It's going to be if you break the call, will make the call again. So we at Anritsu we want to ensure that we have a system in place. We have our network emulators in place that can cater to multiple radio access technologies as well as multiple carrier aggregation performances so we can aggregate more carriers with a similar with a common platform versus having a multiple boxes to do that or having multiple boxes with different radio access technologies. We want to make we tried to make sure and ensure that everything is built into one single box, whether you are trying to do some sort of an RF performance testing, any sort of protocol testing. And one big part of it that's coming into 5G, as more use cases involve, is what we call application testing. And how how do you validate security on a fabrication? How do you ensure know the network is one place, but then you add the application on top of it, that application is performing on the use case that are determined by the user over there. So again, spectrum testing, make sure you supplied different spectrums. We're able to cater to a different deployment modes of non-standalone, standalone modes, dual connectivity, carrier aggregation, dual connectivity between NR and NR. And are we able to test latency at seven-millisecond level as well as to OTA testing for millimeter wave, for instance. Right. And be able to expand those millimeter wave testing not only between twenty-four to forty three point five gigahertz, but be able to go all the way up to higher frequencies as you're going to release 16 and early 17, for instance. There features that will require spectrum to be used over from two-point six gigahertz or seventy gigahertz. So have we trying to come up with common solutions. And it's a lot of work to make sure that the solutions are robust and be able to cater to different needs. Hema Kadia: Understood. Adan do you want to continue with the solutions. Adnan Khan: Sure, so some of the solutions we have, as I said, has been a company in place for over one hundred twenty-five years in the test and measurement market. And we do play a role in different segments. Right. So we are not really at the tail end, but we try to make sure that we go through the different cycles of testing. And the reason behind that is as you perfect one cycle of testing, a lot of these cycles are sequential. And as the technology matures, the cycles tend to become more agnostic of each other. But in the beginning, if you are able to do that, for instance, in the chipset in R&D phase and you have basically mastered it, you have work with different chipset vendors, then that is a very high probability that the issues that could have been found have been eliminated. Right, you have found all those issues, whether issues could be on the test equipment side or it could be on the chipset side. So that's one area that we play into is the device chipset in R&D phase. Right. And once the device chips that you have, the the chipset, the features, for instance, you could have features like 8CA 10CA on FR two right, they have been brought up now then it goes into the next phase where it's called acceptance testing, conformance testing, whereby you need to make sure devices or networks meet the requirements set by the specifications in 3GPP, so we participate in that. And then the next phase is production. So now as technology has become commercialized, there's going to be more deployment of it. So we ensure that the devices that are getting manufactured are going through some series of testing to ensure that the performance and the protocol capabilities are meeting the needs of the end-user. Right. So we try to basically perform and align ourselves with the different phases of testing. And one of these products that we have right now that you're seeing here is the MT eight thousand A (MT8000A) that we see in the second column, which whereby it says to 5G NR device protocol and RF test. And that is the platform I'm talking about that tends to that takes a 5G testing to the next level. So that same platform would be used for R&D phase the same platform would be the brains of the conformance system. That same platform would be used for production testing. So we know that by the time the testing has reached from the R&D phase to the production phase, that specific hardware and the software residing on that hardware has been tested with its full capability, as well as has been integrated with the different chipset vendors. As you know, in 5G, there are a lot more chipset vendors that work during peak time support. Hey Adnan, do you also want to spend a minute in high lighting some of the advantages or benefits or differentiators that these product solutions are offering in the market? Yes, absolutely. So some of the if I might call it a value proposition that we offer is we have a simple hardware such as MT8000A. It supports release 15, it supports release 16. And we already have work looking at high level on the features that are going to be in release 17. Right. That's one part. And then obviously, again, the hardware is common. It's a different configuration for different functions and it can support different frequency ranges, one and two. Now, both of that two frequency ranges would be used for private 5G, different deployment modes going through standalone mode as well as NSA mode. And then the key more important part is the interoperability with LTE as well as 3G and and the predecessor technologies, because 5G is not going to be deployed. As I said, they could be an instance whereby you can have a private 5G network where there is connectivity with the access network on the public side and there could be interoperability, they could be roaming issues that could be found between 5G as well as 4G. So having the same box and having a solid foundation and LTE and 3G and the previous technologies is very important without using a separate box and then the capability to support different types of testing, testing, application, testing that we talked about, as well as protocol and all that, all that being done in one box, as well as integration with different chipset vendors, different OEMs, to make sure that we have achieved stability in the R&D phase and be able to provide repeatable and robust performance with respect to the measurements we're taking. It's very important when a device or when a network is launched, the time to market is the key component, right? If the results of the hardware that we have or the software setting on the hardware, it has a lot of variance as a decision to introduce a lot of latency and delay in launching those services. Right. So being able to have repeatable and robust test performance, it's a key part. Hema Kadia: Thank you very much for this very informative session, really appreciate your time. Adnan Khan: Oh, thank you so much, Hema. Appreciate it. 