 Taylor is a dynamic construction and property delivery partner connecting people and spaces. Established in 1994, Taylor designs, constructs,  and develops diverse projects for all sectors –   from project inception to completion. Taylor's IT team has researched and prepared  innovative technologies that require the performance of 5G. When asked which use case or technologies  are most important to Taylor Construction, Christian Neyle, Manager of IT had this to say: The number one at the moment is the HoloLens and the VR platforms. So, a lot of these augmented and virtual reality technologies are now operating wirelessly and they require massive amounts of data and CAD drawings and modeling to be pulled down either from a cloud server   or the internet or even just a local device, and  to have all of that information sent wirelessly,   as you can imagine, it puts an extreme strain  on bandwidth requirements and extreme strain on latency. Being able to then make those changes in  real-time in holographic space reflect back – so we're talking upload as well now – back to  a cloud location, and back to that change,   that's something that 5G is going to be critical to our business for. So if you're standing on the the corner of an  empty job site waiting to see what it's going to look like, you can actually hit a play button and you can actually see it go stage, by stage, by stage. The level of shock and 'wow' in their eyes,   it's as if someone just seeing a rainbow for the first time. To use the example on one of the job sites  when there was a clash of being detected   and the structure's foreman was there  and he put the glasses on, and he had a big smile, "wow look at this" and it turned into a big frown and then, "Oh!"   because he realized there was going to  be a big problem with part of that job. We've seen the challenges of trying to deploy  that technology on the existing infrastructure, and while we've managed to do it, it certainly hasn't been sort of smooth or efficient... You can tell its next-generation technology waiting for a next-generation network. So let's use the idea of safety; it's obviously a very core one, the very important part to any construction  business or any business in general.   The ability to have a 360-degree, 8K camera streaming in real-time from the Gold Coast back down to Sydney, and that was all powered  by the 5G network. So being able to actually view that information in real-time and view that streaming video, no disconnects, no dropouts. Then Amazon had a product that allowed them to have machine learning, scanning hard hat QR codes and reporting on the safety and induction of staff members on the job site. So if you had subcontractors walking around wearing their hard hats that weren't inducted, it was able to send an alert back to the safety manager on that job and say to them, "Hey you've got x y z number of people that are not inducted. Here's what the image of the person looks like. Please go out and talk to them so you can make sure that you have everyone inducted, no one slips through the cracks." So combining these two technologies  utilizing 5G network sort-of in the middle, is you can then see where I'm going here, and take active tripod 360-degree cameras, put them at various points on every job site,  have that information fed through, with machine learning, back to one safety officer who could be here in north Sydney who can have a few screens set up looking visually at the jobs, and getting reports relayed to him saying, "hey this person on this job, not inducted," "this person on this job, not inducted." He can get on the phone and talk to the site manager on that job and say, "Hey guys, as of a few seconds ago, this person walked past and was not inducted. Please go out and make sure that he is inducted on the job,   and please make sure that he's got his white card and that he's being work safe." There are sensors that you clamp onto the rebar, and then as the concrete gets poured around the rebar of the job, there is then a relay point that's put at the end of every bar,   so all of the sensors relay back to that information and that's an IoT-enabled 5G device that then reports back to some form of monitoring or dashboard, however you want to customize and set up, you can customize it up. It's like a black box for buildings. That's effectively what it is,   and to be able to report on that is the 5G network. It's all about IoT. A big part of what you see on a lot of job sites  is they will spend either a large amount of money   or a large amount of time printing off the latest architectural drawing. They'll lay it out on a very large drawing board  and everyone congregates around the drawing board and looks at that information. The reason we don't do that on again iPads  or any other tablet form of device out on the job sites currently, is because the speed's not there. If you load up an architectural drawing, we're talking a PDF that could be 100 to 500mb even sometimes a gigabyte worth of drawing,   and while they only want to print or view  one page you have to bring up that whole set of drawings to be able to get all that information out. You've got to understand that these PDF drawings are again, layer by layer by layer of every service on the drawing. So again, you may only want to print or view one layer but you've got to open the whole file   before you can start to get that information out of it. Being able to resolve that issue of low latency, high speeds, high upload, as well for any changes you make – that's going to be a big, big value driver. We could then get large touch screens instead of plain pictures, and they could mark them up, they can draw them in real time. They could call the architect and go, "Hey, change this." You can make the change,  the design manager can update the drawing,   and then you can refresh the image almost in real time, and a couple seconds later, view whatever the latest is. You're not hamstrung by slow bandwidth or slow speeds on that job site. Depending on the emergence of 5G in the area we're in, I could certainly see that becoming a failover connection and us getting rid of a very high cost fiber secondary service and change back to just be a 5G secondary, because it would then have the same  capacity and capability as the fiber anyway. We were seeing speeds probably 20 times faster than what the job site was used to. We didn't get a single complaint. There was no further complaints about video call quality or audio call quality or even that there was lag missing delay. So the latency had clearly become a lot lower  because all of the Zoom calls and all the Microsoft Teams calls   in and out of that job site were clear, crisp, no delay. Perfect level of communication. We immediately saw that response translate  into improved productivity by less downtime. 