 Today we're here to talk about Samsung and Duo's partnership. Samsung and Google have been partners on the mobile side for well over a decade at this point. We partnered extremely closely with the Android team to bring better video chat to mobile devices. The S20 is our first full 5G lineup, and so with Google Duo we have a unique opportunity to be the first to deliver full HD 1080p video chat quality on these devices. We were really excited about the Samsung partnership because Samsung and Google both share a vision that every communication experience on an Android phone should be the best it possibly can be. As we see network connection quality improving worldwide, we're seeing more and more people video calling more frequently. In fact, 10% of Duo users now make video calls every single day, and with 5G rollout we expect that to increase even further because of that crystal-clear quality that people are going to love. One of the challenges with adapting for 5G, was making sure we could send that high-quality video. Not everyone has the same network connection. There are going to be dips and spikes. We've been working closely with the DeepMind team to dynamically give you the highest quality without any interruptions. There's going to be the occasional interruption, especially in audio, and that's what we found with users is the most frustrating. And so using DeepMind machine learning, we actually will create synthetic noises that seamlessly fill the gaps between your voice, so that to the user it sounds like there were no interruptions. We want to have a consistent experience, and that's why a considerable amount of co-development happens between Samsung and Google to bring this to life across all of our devices. We can collaborate together and build the tools to help make that happen. It's really important for us because we understand that communication today will not be necessarily how we communicate tomorrow. And there really wasn't a better partner to bring that to life with. 