 Today Cradlepoint is announcing a new generation of wireless edge solutions that will accelerate the realization of wireless brands for business customers. We're a leader in 4G and we are really hungry  to maintain that leadership into 5G. we've got the expertise, the relationships, the customer base, to really make an impact as we bring 5G for business into the market  in a variety of applications. It's cutting edge, right, so any cutting-edge technology there's not a blueprint. A lot of teams in Cradlepoint have put in a lot of effort into this, there's been a lot of innovation and to finally see it to get into customers hands and see what they're going to start using it for, is what's exciting.   5G for businesses is not just about the hardware innovations, it encompasses the entire solution:   the hardware, the cloud that we've got, the management system, and then the visibility and the analytics behind it. Our products have to support  the tremendous amount of frequency spectrum. It's a benefit to the customers because now they have that all that help, all that frequency available to them and if they have a problem with one carrier they can switch to another carrier seamlessly with a Cradlepoint product. Cradlepoint has a complete solution of cellular, everything from 4G LTE to Gigabit LTE to 5G. It will be able to connect to any one of those networks so when a customer plugs it in, they should get connected to whatever network is best for them. So NetCloud offers complete lifecycle management. It automatically figures out if there is a problem in the network and then a lot of cases actually alert you beforehand, even before you realize that there's a problem in your network. The Cradlepoint boxes are typically all-in-one boxes meaning they'll have a cellular connection,  Ethernet connections, and Wi-Fi connections. And we spend a lot of time making sure that those different interfaces don't interfere with each other so you have a good experience.  5G does offer a lot of exciting opportunities. Certainly the technologies have been improving over all of these years and 5G is a continuation of that. With Cradlepoint, 5G means business. 