 You know what I'm looking for the company which will profit the most from 5G. Is Skyworks solutions the one? we will find out in this video If you are new to this channel, please consider subscribing I make one new video every day about the stock market about investing and about entrepreneurship to help you become a better investor so ask I work solution it makes semiconductors mainly in use for mobile communication system but also for home medical military and Other markets so some of the main companies the main customers of sky work solutions include Amazon Microsoft Welcome see me, Sam superhighway and of course Apple's most of the revenues come from Apple because every iPhone on the Market has a skywalk solution sheet on it. They don't directly sell to Apple. They sell to Foxconn but fossil-based IPhones for Apple so indirectly, they are a supplier of Apple this company may not be as famous as Qualcomm or micron technology But their semiconductors, like I said are found in almost all devices not just iPhones. It's found on samsung technology Electronic phones all these companies which makes mobile phones. They need most of that we to have those chips made by Skywalk solution it's these chips are used to connect to the network they are not really the modern but more like an antenna and because of this sky works on shell is at the center of the internet-of-things of 5g you will see even on their website they have So many explanations about 5g because this will be such an important part of their business Right now they make money from royalties by selling these these chips They make 18 US dollars for every phone sold with a skywalk solution chip It's 440 with 5g. They are going to make 25 years dollars. Like I said half of the revenue 54% actually come from Apple and the rest of the majority of the revenue comes from Samsung and We let's have a look at the fundamentals They have a p/e ratio of thirteen point one to a brass per book of three point five three. It returns on equity of 28.5% a profit margin of 30% a dividend yield of 1.71 percent they currently show six point one eight and a debt to equity ratio of 0.17 so Luke so looking at all these Fundamentals and also of the prospect of this business hard because factor is going to be a big thing and this company right now the only Competition they have is Nokia a reason. These companies are also operating in the same sphere but Sky wall solution has an advantage. They are already supplying to Apple. They're already supplying to Samsung Electronics They're already supplying to Qualcomm. All these companies. They are only working for these companies and these companies are dependent on the chips made by Sky work solution so for me this is a good investment for the time being looking at the price because it's really it's really cheap if you will look at it and If compared to Alexandre Nokia, which are losing money actually Skywalk solution is making money and to answer your question is the company to invest in the one to invest info fight You win the most from 5g to answer this question I will have to do that Nokia how to look at a resale are not look at these companies in details yet. If I Just look at the this company to the Skywalk solution. Yes, then this is a great company But whenever you're investing should look at the competitors So I can't tell you before I look at their competitors But for the time being this one is number one on my list of stocks. I want to invest in to win from 5g So let me know the comments. Did you ever invest in Sky work solutions? What do you think of the company? Thank you for watching this video Please like subscribe and share subscribe for one new video every day about the stock market about investing and about Entrepreneurship to help you become a better investor. Have a nice day and good. Bye 