Business.Company OverviewAt Texas Instruments (TI), we design and make semiconductors that we sell to electronics designers and manufacturers all over the world.  We began operations in 1930.  We are incorporated in Delaware, headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and have design, manufacturing or sales operations in 35 countries. We have three segments: Analog, Embedded Processing and Other.  We expect Analog and Embedded Processing to be our primary growth engines in the years ahead, and we therefore focus our resources on these segments.Financial information with respect to our segments and our operations outside the United States is contained in  Note 16 to the financial statements captioned “Segment and geographic area data” in TI’s 2013 annual report to stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference to such report. Risks attendant to our foreign operations are described in Item 1A, “Risk Factors.”Product InformationSemiconductors are electronic components that serve as the building blocks inside modern electronic systems and equipment.  Semiconductors come in two basic forms: individual transistors and integrated circuits (generally known as “chips”) that combine multiple transistors on a single piece of material to form a complete electronic circuit.  Our products, more than 100,000 orderable parts, are integrated circuits that are used to accomplish many different things, such as converting and amplifying signals, interfacing with other devices, managing and distributing power, processing data, canceling noise and improving signal resolution.  This broad portfolio includes products that are integral to almost all electronic equipment.We sell catalog and application-specific standard semiconductor products, both of which we market to multiple customers.  Catalog products are designed for use by many customers and/or many applications and are sold through both distribution and direct channels.  The vast majority of our catalog products are differentiated. We also sell catalog commodity products, but they account for a small percentage of our revenue.  The life cycles of catalog products generally span multiple years, with some products continuing to sell for decades after their initial release.  Application-specific standard products (ASSPs) are designed for use by a smaller number of customers and are targeted to a specific application.  The life cycles of ASSPs are generally determined by end-equipment upgrade cycles and can be as short as 12 to 24 months, although some can be used across multiple generations of customers’ products.Our segments represent groups of similar products that are combined on the basis of similar design and development requirements, product characteristics, manufacturing processes and distribution channels, and how management allocates resources and measures results.  Additional information regarding each segment’s products follows.AnalogAnalog semiconductors change real-world signals - such as sound, temperature, pressure or images - by conditioning them, amplifying them and often converting them to a stream of digital data that can be processed by other semiconductors, such as embedded processors.  Analog semiconductors are also used to manage power in every electronic device, whether plugged into a wall or running off a battery.  We estimate that we sell our Analog products to more than 100,000 customers.  Our Analog products are used in many markets, particularly personal electronics and industrial.  Sales of our Analog products generated about 60 percent of our revenue in 2013.  According to external sources, the worldwide market for analog semiconductors was about $40 billion in 2013.  Our Analog segment’s revenue in 2013 was $7.2 billion, or about 18 percent of this fragmented market, the leading position.  We believe that we are well positioned to increase our market share over time. Our Analog segment includes the following major product lines:  High Volume Analog & Logic (HVAL), Power Management (Power), High Performance Analog (HPA) and Silicon Valley Analog (SVA).HVAL products:  These include high-volume integrated analog products for specific applications and high-volume catalog products.  HVAL products support applications like automotive safety devices, touch screen controllers, low voltage motor drivers and integrated motor controllers.3Power products:  These include both catalog products and ASSPs that help customers manage power in electronic systems.  Our broad portfolio of Power products is designed to enhance the efficiency of powered devices using battery management solutions, portable power conversion devices, power supply controls and point-of-load products.HPA products:  These include catalog analog products that we market to many different customers who use them in manufacturing a wide range of products.  HPA products include high-speed data converters, amplifiers, sensors, high reliability products, interface products and precision analog products that are typically used in systems that require high performance.  HPA products generally have long life cycles, often more than 10 years.SVA products:  These include a broad portfolio of power management, data converter, interface and operational amplifier catalog analog products used in manufacturing a wide range of products.  SVA products support applications like video and data interface products, electrical fault/arc detection systems and mobile lighting and display systems.  SVA products generally have long life cycles, often more than 10 years.  SVA consists primarily of products that we acquired through our purchase of National Semiconductor Corporation in 2011.Embedded ProcessingEmbedded Processing products are the “brains” of many electronic devices.  Embedded processors are designed to handle specific tasks and can be optimized for various combinations of performance, power and cost, depending on the application.  The devices vary from simple, low-cost products used in electric toothbrushes to highly specialized, complex devices used in wireless basestation communications infrastructure equipment.  Our Embedded Processing products are used in many markets, particularly industrial and automotive.An important characteristic of our Embedded Processing products is that our customers often invest their own research and development (R&D) to write software that operates on our products.  This investment tends to increase the length of our customer relationships because many customers prefer to re-use software from one product generation to the next. Sales of Embedded Processing products generated about 20 percent of our revenue in 2013.  According to external sources, the worldwide market for embedded processors was about $17 billion in 2013.  Our Embedded Processing segment’s revenue in 2013 was $2.4 billion. This was the number two position and represented about 14 percent of this fragmented market.   We believe we are well positioned to increase our market share over time.Our Embedded Processing segment includes the following major product lines: Processors, Microcontrollers and Connectivity.Processor products:  These include digital signal processors (DSPs) and applications processors.  DSPs perform mathematical computations almost instantaneously to process or improve digital data.  Applications processors run an industry-standard operating system and perform multiple complex tasks, often communicating with other systems.Microcontroller products:  Microcontrollers are self-contained systems with a processor core, memory and peripherals that are designed to control a set of specific tasks for electronic equipment.  Microcontrollers tend to have minimal requirements for memory and program length, with no operating system and low software complexity.  Analog components that control or interface with sensors and other systems are often integrated into microcontrollers.  Connectivity products:  Connectivity products enable electronic devices to seamlessly connect and transfer data, and the requirements for speed, data capability, distance and power vary depending on the application.  Our Connectivity products support many wireless technologies to meet these requirements, including low-power wireless network standards like Zigbee® and other technologies like Bluetooth®, WiFi and GPS.  Our Connectivity products are usually designed into customer devices alongside our processor and microcontroller products, enabling data to be collected, transmitted and acted upon. 4OtherOther includes revenue from our smaller product lines, such as DLP® (primarily used in projectors to create high-definition images), certain custom semiconductors known as application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs) and calculators.  It includes royalties received for our patented technology that we license to other electronics companies and revenue from transitional supply agreements related to acquisitions and divestitures.  We also include revenue from our baseband products and from our OMAPTM applications processors and connectivity products sold into smartphones and consumer tablets, all of which are product lines that we previously announced we are exiting and are collectively referred to as “legacy wireless products.”  Revenue from legacy wireless products declined throughout the year, and our exit from these products is complete.  Other generated $2.6 billion of revenue in 2013. We also include in Other restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related charges, as these charges are not used in evaluating the results of or in allocating resources to our segments.   Acquisition-related charges include certain fair-value adjustments, restructuring charges, transaction expenses, acquisition-related retention bonuses and amortization of intangible assets.  Other also includes certain corporate-level items, such as litigation expenses, environmental costs, insurance proceeds, and assets and liabilities associated with our centralized operations, such as our worldwide manufacturing, facilities and procurement operations.Markets for Our ProductsThe table below lists the major markets that used our products in 2013 and the approximate percentage of our 2013 product revenue that the market represented.  The chart also lists the sectors within those markets into which our products were most frequently sold.    Market   SectorsIndustrial(24% of product revenue)AppliancesBuilding automationDisplayElectronic point of saleFactory automation and controlIndustrial transportationLightingMedical/healthcare/fitnessMotor drivesSmart gridSpace/avionics/defenseTest and measurementOther (education, toys, musical instruments, etc.)Automotive(13% of product revenue)Advanced driver assistance systems (ADAS)BodyHybrid/electric vehicle and powertrain Infotainment and clusterPassive safetyPersonal electronics(37% of product revenue)GamingMobile phonesPersonal and notebook computersPrinters and other peripheralsStorageTabletsTV/set-top box/audioWearables (non-medical)Communications equipment(16% of product revenue)Enterprise switchingResidential gatewayTelecom infrastructureWireless infrastructureEnterprise systems(6% of product revenue)High-performance computing ProjectorsServersThin clientCalculators(4% of product revenue)   Graphing and educational calculators5Market CharacteristicsProduct cycleThe global semiconductor market is characterized by constant, though generally incremental, advances in product designs and manufacturing processes.  Semiconductor prices and manufacturing costs tend to decline over time as manufacturing processes and product life cycles mature. Market cycleThe “semiconductor cycle” is an important concept that refers to the ebb and flow of supply and demand.  The semiconductor market historically has been characterized by periods of tight supply caused by strengthening demand and/or insufficient manufacturing capacity, followed by periods of surplus inventory caused by weakening demand and/or excess manufacturing capacity.   These are typically referred to as upturns and downturns in the semiconductor cycle.  The semiconductor cycle is affected by the significant time and money required to build and maintain semiconductor manufacturing facilities.SeasonalityOur revenue is subject to some seasonal variation.  Our semiconductor revenue tends to be weaker in the first and fourth quarters when compared to the second and third quarters.  Calculator revenue is tied to the U.S. back-to-school season and is therefore at its highest in the second and third quarters.Competitive landscapeThe analog and embedded processing markets are highly fragmented.  As a result, we face significant global competition from dozens of large and small companies in each of those markets, including both broad-based suppliers and niche suppliers.  Our competitors also include emerging companies, particularly in Asia, that sell products into the same markets in which we operate.We believe that competitive performance in the semiconductor market generally depends on several factors, including the breadth of a company’s product line, the strength and depth of the sales network, technological innovation, product development execution, technical support, customer service, quality, reliability, price and scale.  The primary competitive factors for our Analog products include design proficiency, a diverse product portfolio to meet wide-ranging customer needs, manufacturing process technologies that provide differentiated levels of performance, applications and sales support, and manufacturing expertise and capacity.  The primary competitive factors for our Embedded Processing products are the ability to design and cost-effectively manufacture products, system-level knowledge about targeted end markets, installed base of software, software expertise, applications and sales support, and a product’s performance, integration and power characteristics.ManufacturingSemiconductor manufacturing begins with a sequence of photo-lithographic and chemical processing steps that fabricate a number of semiconductor devices on a thin silicon wafer.  Each device on the wafer is tested, the wafer is cut into individual units and each unit is assembled into a package that then is usually retested.  The entire process takes place in highly specialized facilities and requires an average of 12 weeks, with most products completing within 8 to 16 weeks.The cost and lifespan of the equipment and processes we use to manufacture semiconductors vary by technology.  Our Analog products and most of our Embedded Processing products can be manufactured using mature and stable, and therefore less expensive, equipment than is needed for manufacturing advanced logic products, such as some of our processor products.We own and operate semiconductor manufacturing facilities in North America, Asia, Japan and Europe.  These include both wafer fabrication and assembly/test facilities.  Our facilities require substantial investment to construct and are largely fixed-cost assets once in operation.  Because we own much of our manufacturing capacity, a significant portion of our operating cost is fixed.  In general, these fixed costs do not decline with reductions in customer demand or utilization of capacity, potentially lowering our profit margins.  Conversely, as product demand rises and factory utilization increases, the fixed costs are spread over increased output, potentially benefiting our profit margins.  6We expect to maintain sufficient internal manufacturing capacity to meet the vast majority of our production needs.  To supplement our manufacturing capacity and maximize our responsiveness to customer demand and return on capital, we utilize the capacity of outside suppliers, commonly known as foundries, and subcontractors.  In 2013, we sourced about 20 percent of our total wafers from external foundries and about 35 percent of our assembly/test services from subcontractors. In 2013, we closed older wafer fabrication facilities in Hiji, Japan, and Houston, Texas.  In December 2013, we acquired an assembly/test facility in the Hi-Tech Zone of Chengdu, China, adjacent to our existing fabrication facility in Chengdu.InventoryOur inventory practices differ by product, but we generally maintain inventory levels that are consistent with our expectations of customer demand.  Because of the longer product life cycles of catalog products and their inherently lower risk of obsolescence, we generally carry more inventory of those products than application-specific products.  Additionally, we sometimes maintain product inventory in unfinished wafer form, as well as higher finished-goods inventory of low-volume catalog products, allowing greater flexibility in periods of high demand.  We also have consignment inventory programs in place for our largest customers and some distributors.Design Centers Our design centers provide design, engineering and product application support as well as after-sales customer service.  The design centers are strategically located around the world to take advantage of key technical and engineering talent and proximity to key customers.CustomersOur products are sold to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), original design manufacturers (ODMs) and companies within the electronics manufacturing services industry (EMSI).  An OEM designs and sells products under its own brand that it manufactures in-house or has manufactured by others.  An ODM designs and manufactures products for other companies, which then sell those products under their own brand.  EMSI companies manufacture, distribute and provide repair services for electronic products for OEMs.  In addition, we sell to customers through distributors.  In 2013, no single customer accounted for 10 percent or more of our revenue.Sales and DistributionWe market and sell our semiconductor products through a direct sales force and distributors.  We have sales or marketing offices in 34 countries worldwide and have expanded our sales networks in the emerging markets of China, India and Eastern Europe over the last few years.  Distributors located around the world account for about 55 percent of our revenue.  Our distributors maintain an inventory of our products and sell directly to a wide range of customers.  They also sell products from our competitors.  Our distribution network holds a mix of distributor-owned and TI-consigned inventory.  Over time, we expect this mix will continue to shift more toward consignment.  We sell our calculator products primarily through retailers and instructional dealers. Acquisitions, Divestitures and Investments From time to time we consider acquisitions and divestitures that may strengthen or better focus our business portfolio.  We also make investments directly or indirectly in private companies.  Investments are focused primarily on next-generation technologies and markets strategic to us.  In September 2011, we acquired National Semiconductor Corporation.BacklogWe define backlog as of a particular date as firm purchase orders with a customer-requested delivery date within a specified length of time.  As customer requirements and industry conditions change, orders may be, under certain circumstances, subject to cancellation or modification of terms such as pricing, quantity or delivery date.  Customer order placement practices continually evolve based on customers’ individual business needs and capabilities, as well as industry supply and capacity considerations.  Accordingly, our backlog at any particular date may not be indicative of revenue for any future period.  Our backlog of orders was $1.06 billion at December 31, 2013, and $1.17 billion at December 31, 2012.7Raw Materials We purchase materials, parts and supplies from a number of suppliers.  In some cases we purchase such items from sole source suppliers.  The materials, parts and supplies essential to our business are generally available at present, and we believe that such materials, parts and supplies will be available in the foreseeable future. Intellectual Property We own many patents, and have many patent applications pending, in the United States and other countries in fields relating to our business.  We have developed a strong, broad-based patent portfolio and continually add patents to that portfolio.  We also have agreements with numerous companies involving license rights and anticipate that other license agreements may be negotiated in the future.  In general, our license agreements have multi-year terms and may be renewed after renegotiation.Our semiconductor patent portfolio is an ongoing contributor to our revenue.  We do not consider our business materially dependent upon any one patent or patent license, although taken as a whole, our rights and the products made and sold under patents and patent licenses are important to our business.We often participate in industry initiatives to set technical standards.  Our competitors may participate in the same initiatives.  Participation in these initiatives may require us to license certain of our patents to other companies on reasonable and non-discriminatory terms.We own trademarks that are used in the conduct of our business.  These trademarks are valuable assets, the most important of which are “Texas Instruments” and our corporate monogram.  Other valuable trademarks include DLP® and OMAPTM.Research and Development Our R&D expense was $1.52 billion in 2013, compared with $1.88 billion in 2012 and $1.72 billion in 2011.  Our primary areas of R&D investment are Analog and Embedded Processing products. We conduct most of our R&D internally.  However, we also closely engage with a wide range of third parties, including software suppliers, universities and select external industry consortia, and we collaborate with our foundry suppliers on semiconductor manufacturing technology.  From time to time we may terminate R&D projects before completion or decide not to manufacture and sell a developed product.  We do not expect that all of our R&D projects will result in products that are ultimately released for sale, or that our projects will contribute significant revenue until at least a few years following completion.  8Executive Officers of the RegistrantThe following is an alphabetical list of the names and ages of the executive officers of the company and the positions or offices with the company presently held by each person named: NameAgePositionNiels Anderskouv44Senior Vice PresidentStephen A. Anderson52Senior Vice PresidentBrian T. Crutcher41Senior Vice PresidentR. Gregory Delagi51Senior Vice PresidentDavid K. Heacock53Senior Vice PresidentJoseph F. Hubach56Senior Vice President, Secretary and General CounselSami Kiriaki53Senior Vice PresidentKevin P. March56Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerRobert K. Novak48Senior Vice PresidentKevin J. Ritchie57Senior Vice PresidentJohn J. Szczsponik, Jr.53Senior Vice PresidentRichard K. Templeton55Director; Chairman of the Board; President and Chief Executive OfficerTeresa L. West53Senior Vice PresidentDarla H. Whitaker48Senior Vice PresidentThe term of office of the above-listed officers is from the date of their election until their successor shall have been elected and qualified.  All executive officers of the company have been employees of the company for more than five years.  Mses. West and Whitaker and Messrs. Anderson, Delagi, Heacock, Hubach, March, Novak, Ritchie and Templeton have served as executive officers of the company for more than five years.  Mr. Szczsponik became an executive officer of the company in 2009.  Messrs. Crutcher and Kiriaki became executive officers of the company in 2010.  Mr. Anderskouv became an executive officer of the company in 2012.Employees At December 31, 2013, we had 32,209 employees.  Available Information Our Internet address is www.ti.com.  Information on our web site is not a part of this report.  We make available, free of charge, through our investor relations web site our reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with the SEC.  Also available through the TI investor relations web site are reports filed by our directors and executive officers on Forms 3, 4 and 5, and amendments to those reports.    Available on our web site at www.ti.com/corporategovernance are: (i) our Corporate Governance Guidelines; (ii) charters for the Audit, Compensation, and Governance and Stockholder Relations Committees of our board of directors; (iii) our Code of Business Conduct; and (iv) our Code of Ethics for TI Chief Executive Officer and Senior Finance Officers.  Stockholders may request copies of these documents free of charge by writing to Texas Instruments Incorporated, P.O. Box 660199, MS 8657, Dallas, Texas, 75266-0199, Attention: Investor Relations.  