Risk Factors.  You should read the following Risk Factors in conjunction with the factors discussed elsewhere in this and other of our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and in materials incorporated by reference in these filings.  These Risk Factors are intended to highlight certain factors that may affect our financial condition and results of operations and are not meant to be an exhaustive discussion of risks that apply to companies like TI with broad international operations.  Like other companies, we are susceptible to macroeconomic downturns in the United States or abroad that may affect the general economic climate and our performance and the performance of our customers.  Similarly, the price of our securities is subject to volatility due to fluctuations in general market conditions, actual financial results that do not meet our and/or the investment 9community’s expectations, changes in our and/or the investment community’s expectations for our future results and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.  Cyclicality in the Semiconductor Market May Affect Our Performance.Semiconductor products are the principal source of our revenue.  The semiconductor market historically has been cyclical and subject to significant and often rapid increases and decreases in product demand.  These changes could have adverse effects on our results of operations, and on the market price of our securities.  The results of our operations may be adversely affected in the future if demand for our semiconductors decreases or if this market or key end-equipment markets grow at a significantly slower pace than management expects.  Our Margins May Vary over Time.Our profit margins may be adversely affected in the future by a number of factors, including decreases in our shipment volume, reductions in, or obsolescence of our inventory and shifts in our product mix.  In addition, the highly competitive market environment in which we operate might adversely affect pricing for our products.  Because we own much of our manufacturing capacity, a significant portion of our operating costs is fixed.  In general, these fixed costs do not decline with reductions in customer demand or utilization of manufacturing capacity, and can adversely affect profit margins as a result.  The Technology Industry Is Characterized by Rapid Technological Change That Requires Us to Develop New Technologies and Products.Our results of operations depend in part upon our ability to successfully develop, manufacture and market innovative products in a rapidly changing technological environment.  We require significant capital to develop new technologies and products to meet changing customer demands that, in turn, may result in shortened product life cycles.  Moreover, expenditures for technology and product development are generally made before the commercial viability for such developments can be assured.  As a result, there can be no assurance that we will successfully develop and market these new products.  There also is no assurance that the products we do develop and market will be well-received by customers, nor that we will realize a return on the capital expended to develop such products.  We Face Substantial Competition That Requires Us to Respond Rapidly to Product Development and Pricing Pressures.We face intense technological and pricing competition in the markets in which we operate.  We expect this competition will continue to increase from large competitors and from smaller competitors serving niche markets, and also from emerging companies, particularly in Asia, that sell products into the same markets in which we operate.  Certain of our competitors possess sufficient financial, technical and management resources to develop and market products that may compete favorably against our products.  The price and product development pressures that result from competition may lead to reduced profit margins and lost business opportunities in the event that we are unable to match the price declines or cost efficiencies, or meet the technological, product, support, software or manufacturing advancements of our competitors.  Our Performance Depends in Part on Our Ability to Enforce Our Intellectual Property Rights and to Develop and License New Intellectual Property.Access to worldwide markets depends in part on the continued strength of our intellectual property portfolio.  There can be no assurance that, as our business expands into new areas, we will be able to independently develop the technology, software or know-how necessary to conduct our business or that we can do so without infringing the intellectual property rights of others.  To the extent that we have to rely on licensed technology from others, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain licenses at all or on terms we consider reasonable.  The lack of a necessary license could expose us to claims for damages and/or injunction from third parties, as well as claims for indemnification by our customers in instances where we have a contractual or other legal obligation to indemnify them against damages resulting from infringement claims.  With regard to our own intellectual property, we actively enforce and protect our rights.  However, there can be no assurance that our efforts will be adequate to prevent the misappropriation or improper use of our protected technology.We benefit from royalty revenue generated from various patent license agreements.  The amount of such revenue depends in part on negotiations with new licensees, and with existing licensees in connection with renewals of their licenses.  There is no guarantee that such negotiations will be successful.  Future royalty revenue also depends on the strength and enforceability of our patent portfolio and our enforcement efforts, and on the sales and financial stability of our licensees.  Additionally, 10consolidation of our licensees may negatively affect our royalty revenue.  Royalty revenue from licensees is not always uniform or predictable, in part due to the performance of our licensees and in part due to the timing of new license agreements or the expiration and renewal of existing agreements.  A Decline in Demand in Certain Markets Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on the Demand for Our Products and Results of Operations.Our customer base includes companies in a wide range of markets, but we generate a significant amount of revenue from sales to customers in the  personal electronics market, particularly the mobile phone sector, and from sales to industrial customers.  Decline in one of these markets could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products and our results of operations and financial condition.  Our Global Operations Subject Us to Complex Laws, Regulations and Policies and Risks Associated with  International Political, Economic or Other Conditions.We have facilities in 35 countries worldwide.  About 85 percent of our revenue comes from shipments to locations outside the United States; in particular, shipments of products into China typically represent a large portion of our revenue.  Our global operations subject us to complex U.S. and foreign laws, regulations and policies relating to, for example, trade and export controls, anti-bribery, antitrust and privacy.  Violations of or changes in these laws, regulations and policies could result in fines, penalties, and sanctions that could adversely affect our results of operations.  Operating internationally also exposes us to political and economic conditions, security risks, health conditions and possible disruptions in transportation, communications and information technology networks of the various countries in which we operate.  Any of these could result in an adverse effect on our business operations and our financial results.  Additionally, in periods when the U.S. dollar significantly fluctuates in relation to the non-U.S. currencies in which we transact business, the remeasurement of non-U.S. dollar transactions can have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.Our Results of Operations Could be Affected by Natural Events in the Locations in Which We or Our Customers or Suppliers Operate.We have manufacturing, data and design facilities and other operations in locations subject to natural occurrences such as severe weather and geological events that could disrupt operations.  In addition, our suppliers and customers have similar facilities and operations in such locations.  A natural disaster that results in a prolonged disruption to our operations, or the operations of our customers or suppliers, may adversely affect our results and financial condition.The Loss of or Significant Curtailment of Purchases by Any of Our Largest Customers Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations.We generate revenue from thousands of customers worldwide.  The loss of or significant curtailment of purchases by one or more of our top customers (including curtailments due to a change in the design or manufacturing sourcing policies or practices of these customers, or the timing of customer or distributor inventory adjustments) may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.Our Results of Operations Could be Adversely Affected by Our Distributors’ Promotion of Competing Product Lines or Our Distributors’ Financial Performance.In 2013, about 55 percent of our revenue was generated from sales of our products to distributors.  Our distributors carry competing product lines, and our sales could be affected if our distributors promote competing products over our products.  Moreover, our results of operations could be affected if our distributors suffer financial difficulties that result in their inability to pay amounts owed to us.Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition Could be Adversely Affected if a Customer or a Distributor Suffers a Loss with Respect to Our Inventory.We have consignment inventory programs in place for some of our largest customers and for some distributors.  If a customer or distributor were to experience a loss with respect to TI-consigned inventory, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected if we do not recover the full value of the lost inventory from the customer, distributor or insurer, or if our recovery is delayed.11Incorrect Forecasts of Customer Demand Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations.Our ability to match inventory and production with the product mix needed to fill orders may affect our ability to meet a quarter’s revenue forecast.  In addition, when responding to customers’ requests for shorter shipment lead times, we manufacture products based on forecasts of customers’ demands.  These forecasts are based on multiple assumptions.  If we inaccurately forecast customer demand, we may hold inadequate, excess or obsolete inventory that would reduce our profit margins and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.Our Performance Depends on the Availability and Cost of Raw Materials, Utilities, Critical Manufacturing Equipment, Manufacturing Processes and Third-Party Manufacturing Services.Our manufacturing processes and critical manufacturing equipment, and those of some of our customers and suppliers, require that certain key raw materials, natural resources and utilities be available.  Limited or delayed access to and high costs of these items could adversely affect our results of operations.  Our products contain materials that are subject to conflict minerals reporting requirements.  Our relationships with customers and suppliers may be adversely affected if we are unable to describe our products as conflict-free.  Additionally, our costs may increase if customers demand that we change the sourcing of materials we cannot identify as conflict-free.Our inability to timely implement new manufacturing technologies or install manufacturing equipment could adversely affect our results of operations.  We subcontract a portion of our wafer fabrication and assembly and testing of our integrated circuits.  We also depend on third parties to provide advanced logic manufacturing process technology development.  A limited number of third parties perform these functions, and we do not have long-term contracts with all of them.  Reliance on these third parties involves risks, including possible shortages of capacity in periods of high demand, the third parties’ inability to develop and deliver advanced logic manufacturing process technology in a timely, cost effective and appropriate manner and the possibility of third parties imposing increased costs on us.Our Results of Operations Could be Affected by Changes in Tax-Related Matters.We have facilities in 35 countries worldwide and as a result are subject to taxation and audit by a number of taxing authorities.  Tax rates vary among the jurisdictions in which we operate.  Our results of operations could be affected by market opportunities or decisions we make that cause us to increase or decrease operations in one or more countries, or by changes in applicable tax rates or audits by the taxing authorities in countries in which we operate.  In addition, we are subject to laws and regulations in various jurisdictions that determine how much profit has been earned and when it is subject to taxation in that jurisdiction.  Changes in these laws and regulations could affect the locations where we are deemed to earn income, which could in turn affect our results of operations.  We have deferred tax assets on our balance sheet.  Changes in applicable tax laws and regulations or in our business performance could affect our ability to realize those deferred tax assets, which could also affect our results of operations.  Each quarter we forecast our tax liability based on our forecast of our performance for the year.  If that performance forecast changes, our forecasted tax liability will change. Our Operations Could be Affected by Changes in Environmental, Safety and Health Laws and Regulations.We are subject to environmental, safety and health laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate our business, particularly those in which we manufacture our products.  If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be subject to fines, penalties or other legal liability.  Furthermore, should these laws and regulations be amended or expanded, or new ones enacted, we could incur materially greater compliance costs or restrictions on our ability to manufacture our products and operate our business, particularly if such laws and regulations: require the use of abatement equipment beyond what we currently employ; require the addition or elimination of a raw material or process to or from our current manufacturing processes; or impose costs, fees or reporting requirements on the direct or indirect use of energy, or of materials or gases used or emitted into the environment, in connection with the manufacture of our products.  There can be no assurance that in all instances a substitute for a prohibited raw material or process would be available, or be available at reasonable cost. Our Results of Operations Could be Affected by Changes in the Financial Markets.We maintain bank accounts, one or more multi-year revolving credit agreements, and a portfolio of investments to support the financing needs of the company.  Our ability to fund our daily operations, invest in our business, make strategic acquisitions and service our debt obligations requires continuous access to our bank and investment accounts, as well as access to our bank credit lines that support commercial paper borrowings and provide additional liquidity through short-term bank loans.  If we are unable to access these accounts and credit lines (for example, due to instability in the financial markets), our results of 12operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.  Similarly, such circumstances could also restrict our ability to access the capital markets or redeem our investments.  If our customers or suppliers are unable to access credit markets and other sources of needed liquidity, we may receive fewer customer orders or be unable to obtain needed supplies, collect accounts receivable or access needed technology.Material Impairments of Our Goodwill or Intangible Assets Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations.Charges associated with impairments of our goodwill or intangible assets could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.  Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if certain impairment indicators arise or upon the disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit.  The review compares the fair value for each reporting unit to its associated book value including goodwill.  A decrease in the fair value associated with a reporting unit resulting from, among other things, unfavorable changes in the estimated future discounted cash flow of the reporting unit, may require us to recognize impairments of goodwill.  Most of our intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives, but they are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable.  If the sum of the future undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use of the intangible asset and its eventual disposition is less than the carrying amount of the asset, we would recognize an impairment loss to the extent the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value.Our Results of Operations Could be Affected by Warranty Claims, Product Recalls or Product Liability.We could be subject to warranty or product liability claims or claims based on epidemic or delivery failures that could lead to significant expenses as we defend such claims or pay damage awards or settlements.  In the event of a warranty claim, we may also incur costs if we decide to compensate the affected customer or end consumer.  We maintain product liability insurance, but there is no guarantee that such insurance will be available or adequate to protect against all such claims.  In addition, it is possible for one of our customers to recall a product containing a TI part.  In such instances, we may incur costs and expenses relating to the recall.  Costs or payments we may make in connection with warranty, epidemic failure and delivery claims or product recalls may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  Our Continued Success Depends in Part on Our Ability to Retain and Recruit a Sufficient Number of Qualified Employees in a Competitive Environment.Our continued success depends in part on the retention and recruitment of skilled personnel, including technical, marketing, management and staff personnel.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully retain and recruit the key personnel that we require.Our Debt Could Affect Our Operations and Financial Condition.From time to time, we issue debt securities with various interest rates and maturities. While we believe we will have the ability to service this debt, our ability to make principal and interest payments when due depends upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles, and business and other factors affecting our operations, including the other risk factors described under Item 1A, many of which are beyond our control.  In addition, our obligation to make principal and interest payments could divert funds that otherwise would be invested in our operations, or cause us to raise funds through such means as the issuance of new debt or equity, or the disposition of assets.Our Ability to Successfully Implement Business and Organizational Changes Could Affect Our Business Plans and Results of Operations.From time to time, we undertake business and organizational changes, including acquisitions, divestitures and restructuring actions, to support or carry out our strategic objectives.  Our failure to successfully implement these changes could adversely affect our business plans and operating results.  For example, we may not realize the expected benefits of an acquisition if we are unable to timely and successfully integrate acquired operations, product lines and technology, and our pre-acquisition due diligence may not identify all possible issues and risks that might arise with respect to an acquisition.  Further, we may not achieve or sustain the expected growth or cost savings benefits of business and organizational changes, and restructuring charges could differ materially in amount and timing from our expectations.13Our Operating Results and Our Reputation Could be Adversely Affected by Breaches of Our Information Technology Systems.Breaches of our information technology systems caused by computer viruses, unauthorized access, sabotage, vandalism or terrorism could compromise our information technology networks and result in unauthorized release of our, our customers’ or our suppliers’ confidential or proprietary information, cause a disruption to our manufacturing and other operations, result in release of employee personal data, or cause us to incur increased information technology protection costs, any of which could adversely affect our operating results and our reputation.