Business.We design and make semiconductors that we sell to electronics designers and manufacturers all over the world.  We began operations in 1930.  We are incorporated in Delaware, headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and have design, manufacturing or sales operations in 35 countries.  We have two reportable segments: Analog and Embedded Processing.  We report the results of our remaining business activities in Other.  We expect Analog and Embedded Processing to be our primary growth engines in the years ahead, and we therefore focus our resources on these segments. In 2014, we generated $13.05 billion of revenue.Product informationSemiconductors are electronic components that serve as the building blocks inside modern electronic systems and equipment.  Semiconductors, generally known as “chips,” combine multiple transistors on a single piece of material to form a complete electronic circuit.  We have tens of thousands of products that are used to accomplish many different things, such as converting and amplifying signals, interfacing with other devices, managing and distributing power, processing data, canceling noise and improving signal resolution.  This broad portfolio includes products that are integral to almost all electronic equipment. We sell catalog and application-specific standard semiconductor products, both of which we market to multiple customers.  Catalog products are designed for use by many customers and/or many applications and are sold through both distribution and direct channels.  The life cycles of catalog products generally span multiple years, with some products continuing to sell for decades after their initial release.  Application-specific standard products (ASSPs) are designed for use by a smaller number of customers and are targeted to a specific application.  The life cycles of ASSPs are generally determined by end-equipment upgrade cycles and can be as short as 12 to 24 months, although some can be used across multiple generations of customers’ products. The vast majority of our revenue is derived from products that are differentiated from competitors’ products.  Our segments represent groups of similar products that are combined on the basis of similar design and development requirements, product characteristics, manufacturing processes and distribution channels. Our segments also reflect how management allocates resources and measures results.  Additional information regarding each segment follows.AnalogAnalog generated $8.1 billion of revenue in 2014.  Analog semiconductors change real-world signals, such as sound, temperature, pressure or images, by conditioning them, amplifying them and often converting them to a stream of digital data that can be processed by other semiconductors, such as embedded processors.  Analog semiconductors also are used to manage power in every electronic device, whether plugged into a wall or running off a battery.  Our Analog products are used in many markets, particularly personal electronics and industrial.Sales of our Analog products generated 62 percent of our revenue in 2014.  According to external sources, the market for analog semiconductors was $44 billion in 2014.  Our Analog segment’s revenue in 2014 was 18 percent of this fragmented market, the leading position.  We believe we are well positioned to increase our market share over time. Our Analog segment includes the following product lines:  High Volume Analog & Logic (HVAL), Power Management (Power), High Performance Analog (HPA) and Silicon Valley Analog (SVA).HVAL productsThese include high-volume integrated analog products for specific applications and high-volume catalog products.  HVAL products support applications like automotive safety devices, touchscreen controllers, low-voltage motor drivers and integrated motor controllers.Power productsThese include both catalog products and ASSPs that help customers manage power in electronic systems. Our broad portfolio of Power products is designed to enhance the efficiency of powered devices using battery management solutions, portable power conversion devices, power supply controls and point-of-load products. HPA productsThese include catalog analog products that we market to many different customers who use them in manufacturing a wide range of products.  HPA products include high-speed data converters, amplifiers, sensors, high reliability products, interface products and precision analog products that are typically used in systems that require high performance.  HPA products generally have long life cycles, often more than 10 years.2SVA productsThese include a broad portfolio of industrial, high-voltage power management, data converter, interface and operational amplifier catalog products used in manufacturing a wide range of electronic systems.  SVA products support applications like video and data interface products, electrical arc/fault detection systems, and mobile lighting and display systems. SVA products generally have long life cycles, often more than 10 years.  SVA consists primarily of products that we acquired through our purchase of National Semiconductor Corporation (National) in 2011.Embedded ProcessingEmbedded Processing generated $2.7 billion of revenue in 2014.  Embedded Processing products are the “brains” of many electronic devices. Embedded processors are designed to handle specific tasks and can be optimized for various combinations of performance, power and cost, depending on the application.  The devices vary from simple, low-cost products used in electric toothbrushes to highly specialized, complex devices used in communications infrastructure equipment.  Our Embedded Processing products are used in many markets, particularly industrial and automotive.An important characteristic of our Embedded Processing products is that our customers often invest their own research and development (R&D) to write software that operates on our products.  This investment tends to increase the length of our customer relationships because many customers prefer to re-use software from one product generation to the next.Sales of Embedded Processing products generated 21 percent of our revenue in 2014.  According to external sources, the market for embedded processors was $18 billion in 2014.   We held the number two position, which represented 15 percent of this fragmented market.  We believe we are well positioned to increase our market share over time.Our Embedded Processing segment includes the following major product lines: Processor, Microcontrollers and Connectivity. Processor productsThese include digital signal processors (DSPs) and applications processors.  DSPs perform mathematical computations almost instantaneously to process or improve digital data.  Applications processors are typically tailored for a specific class of applications such as communications infrastructure and automotive (infotainment and advanced driver assistance systems).  They are also sold into broad industrial applications.Microcontroller productsThese include self-contained systems with a processor core, memory and peripherals that are designed to control a set of specific tasks for electronic equipment.  Microcontrollers tend to have minimal requirements for memory and program length, with no operating system and low software complexity.  Analog components that control or interface with sensors and other systems are often integrated into microcontrollers. Connectivity productsThese include products that enable electronic devices to seamlessly connect and transfer data, and the requirements for speed, data capability, distance, power and security vary depending on the application.  Our Connectivity products support many wireless technologies to meet these requirements, including low-power wireless network standards like Zigbee® and other technologies like Bluetooth®, WiFi and GPS.  Our Connectivity products are usually designed into customer devices alongside our processor and microcontroller products, enabling data to be collected, transmitted and acted upon.OtherOther generated $2.2 billion of revenue in 2014 and includes:•Revenue from our smaller product lines, such as DLP® products (primarily used in projectors to create high-definition images), certain custom semiconductors known as application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs) and calculators.  •Revenue from our baseband products and from our OMAPTM applications processors and connectivity products sold into smartphones and consumer tablets.  Our exit from these “legacy wireless products” was completed in 2013. •Royalties received for our patented technology that we license to other electronics companies.  We also include in Other items that are not used in evaluating the results of or in allocating resources to our segments.  These include acquisition-related charges; restructuring charges; and certain corporate-level items, such as litigation expenses, environmental costs, insurance settlements, and gains and losses from other activities, including asset dispositions.3Financial information with respect to our segments and our operations outside the United States is contained in Note 1 to the financial statements, which is included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”  Risks attendant to our foreign operations are described in Item 1A, “Risk Factors.”Markets for our productsThe table below lists the major markets that used our products in 2014 and the estimated percentage of our 2014 revenue that the market represented.  The chart also lists, in decreasing order of our revenue, the sectors within each market.MarketSectorsIndustrial(31% of TI revenue)Factory automation and controlMedical/healthcare/fitnessBuilding automationSmart grid and energyTest and measurementMotor drivesDisplaySpace/avionics/defenseApplianceOther power deliveryElectronic point of saleLightingIndustrial transportationOther (education, toys, musical instruments, etc.)No single sector in this market accounted for more than 4% of TI revenue.Automotive(13% of TI revenue)Infotainment and clusterPassive safety BodyAdvanced driver assistance systems (ADAS)Hybrid/electric vehicle and powertrainNo single sector in this market accounted for more than 5% of TI revenue.Personal electronics(29% of TI revenue)Mobile phonesPersonal and notebook computersTV/set-top box/audioStoragePrinters and other peripheralsTabletsWearables (non-medical)GamingNo single sector in this market accounted for more than 9% of TI revenue.Communications equipment(17% of TI revenue)Wireless infrastructure Telecom infrastructureEnterprise switchingResidential gatewayNo single sector in this market accounted for more than 10% of TI revenue.Enterprise systems(6% of TI revenue)ProjectorsServersMulti-function printers High-performance computingThin clientNo single sector in this market accounted for more than 4% of TI revenue.Other (calculators, royalties and other)(4% of TI revenue)   4Market characteristicsProduct cycleThe global semiconductor market is characterized by constant, though generally incremental, advances in product designs and manufacturing processes.  Semiconductor prices and manufacturing costs tend to decline over time as manufacturing processes and product life cycles mature.Market cycleThe “semiconductor cycle” refers to the ebb and flow of supply and demand.  The semiconductor market historically has been characterized by periods of tight supply caused by strengthening demand and/or insufficient manufacturing capacity, followed by periods of surplus inventory caused by weakening demand and/or excess manufacturing capacity.  These are typically referred to as upturns and downturns in the semiconductor cycle.  The semiconductor cycle is affected by the significant time and money required to build and maintain semiconductor manufacturing facilities.  We employ several strategies to dampen the effect of the semiconductor cycle on TI. We acquire our facilities and equipment ahead of demand, which usually allows us to acquire this capacity at lower costs.  We focus our resources on our Analog and Embedded Processing segments, which serve diverse markets and diverse customers. This diversity reduces our dependence on the performance of a single market or small group of customers. Additionally, we utilize consignment inventory programs with our customers and distributors, which gives us real-time insight into end-market demand, allowing us to better manage our factory loadings.SeasonalityOur revenue is subject to some seasonal variation.  Our semiconductor revenue tends to be weaker in the first and fourth quarters when compared to the second and third quarters.  Calculator revenue is tied to the U.S. back-to-school season and is therefore at its highest in the second and third quarters.Competitive landscapeThe analog and embedded processing markets are highly fragmented.  As a result, we face significant global competition from dozens of large and small companies, including both broad-based suppliers and niche suppliers.  Our competitors also include emerging companies, particularly in Asia, that sell products into the same markets in which we operate.We believe that competitive performance in the semiconductor market generally depends on several factors, including the breadth of a company’s product line, the strength and depth of the sales network, technological innovation, product development execution, technical support, customer service, quality, reliability, price and scale.  The primary competitive factors for our Analog products include design proficiency, a diverse product portfolio to meet wide-ranging customer needs, manufacturing process technologies that provide differentiated levels of performance, applications and sales support, and manufacturing expertise and capacity. The primary competitive factors for our Embedded Processing products are the ability to design and cost-effectively manufacture products, system-level knowledge about targeted end markets, installed base of software, software expertise, applications and sales support, and a product’s performance, integration and power characteristics.ManufacturingSemiconductor manufacturing begins with a sequence of photolithographic and chemical processing steps that fabricate a number of semiconductor devices on a thin silicon wafer.  Each device on the wafer is packaged and tested.  The entire process takes place in highly specialized facilities and requires an average of 12 weeks, with most products completing within 8 to 16 weeks.The cost and lifespan of the equipment and processes we use to manufacture semiconductors vary by technology.  Our Analog products and most of our Embedded Processing products can be manufactured using mature and stable, and therefore less expensive, equipment than is needed for manufacturing advanced logic products, such as some of our processor products.We own and operate semiconductor manufacturing facilities in North America, Asia, Japan and Europe.  These include both wafer fabrication and assembly/test facilities.  Our facilities require substantial investment to construct and are largely fixed-cost assets once in operation.  We own much of our manufacturing capacity; therefore, a significant portion of our operating cost is fixed.  When factory loadings decrease, our fixed costs are spread over reduced output and, absent other circumstances, 5our profit margins decrease.  Conversely, as factory loadings increase, our fixed costs are spread over increased output and, absent other circumstances, our profit margins increase.  However, our operating focus is more on maximizing long-term free cash flow than minimizing short-term variations in profit margins caused by factory loadings. Free cash flow is cash flow from operations less capital expenditures.To this end, we seek to maximize long-term free cash flow by keeping capital expenditures low through opportunistic purchases of facilities and equipment ahead of demand.  For example, in 2013, we purchased an assembly/test facility in Chengdu, China.  In 2014, we initiated plans to adapt existing facilities to manufacture more products, including new products, using 300-millimeter wafers, our most cost-effective manufacturing process.  These activities may have near-term effects on our profit margins, but we believe they will result in long-term benefits to free cash flow.We expect to maintain sufficient internal manufacturing capacity to meet the vast majority of our production needs.  To supplement our manufacturing capacity and maximize our responsiveness to customer demand and return on capital, we utilize the capacity of outside suppliers, commonly known as foundries, and subcontractors.  In 2014, we sourced about 20 percent of our total wafers from external foundries and about 40 percent of our assembly/test services from subcontractors.InventoryOur inventory practices differ by product, but we generally maintain inventory levels that are consistent with our expectations of customer demand.  We carry proportionally more inventory of products with long life cycles and a broad customer base.  Additionally, we sometimes maintain product inventory in unfinished wafer form, as well as higher finished-goods inventory of low-volume products, allowing greater flexibility in periods of high demand.  We also have consignment inventory programs in place for our largest customers and distributors.Design centers Our design centers provide design, engineering and product application support as well as after-sales customer service.  The design centers are strategically located around the world to take advantage of key technical and engineering talent and proximity to key customers.CustomersWe estimate that we sell our products to more than 100,000 customers.  Our customer base is diverse, with one-third of our revenue deriving from customers outside our top 100.  In addition, no single customer accounts for 10 percent or more of our revenue.  Most of our customers purchase our products through distributors.Sales and distributionWe market and sell our semiconductor products through a direct sales force and distributors.  We have sales or marketing offices in 34 countries.  About 60 percent of our revenue comes through distribution channels.  Our distributors maintain an inventory of our products and sell directly to a wide range of customers.  They also sell products from our competitors.  Our distribution network holds a mix of TI-consigned and distributor-owned inventory.  Over time, we expect this mix will continue to shift more toward consignment.  About 60 percent of our distributor revenue is generated from sales of consigned inventory.Acquisitions, divestitures and investments From time to time we consider acquisitions and divestitures that may strengthen or better focus our business portfolio.  We also make investments directly or indirectly in private companies.  Investments are focused primarily on next-generation technologies and markets strategic to us.  In September 2011, we acquired National Semiconductor Corporation.BacklogWe define backlog as of a particular date as purchase orders with a customer-requested delivery date within a specified length of time.  Our backlog at any particular date may not be indicative of revenue for any future period.  As customer requirements and industry conditions change, orders may be subject to cancellation or modification of terms such as pricing, quantity or delivery date.  Customer order placement practices continually evolve based on customers’ individual business needs and capabilities, as well as industry supply and capacity considerations. Further, our consignment programs do not result in backlog because the order occurs at the same time as delivery, i.e., when the customer pulls the product from consigned inventory. Our backlog of orders was $0.94 billion at December 31, 2014, and $1.06 billion at December 31, 2013.6Raw materials We purchase materials, parts and supplies from a number of suppliers. In some cases we purchase such items from sole source suppliers. The materials, parts and supplies essential to our business are generally available at present, and we believe that such materials, parts and supplies will be available in the foreseeable future.Intellectual property We own many patents, and have many patent applications pending, in the United States and other countries in fields relating to our business.  We have developed a strong, broad-based patent portfolio and continually add patents to that portfolio.  We also have agreements with numerous companies involving license rights and anticipate that other license agreements may be negotiated in the future.  In general, our license agreements have multi-year terms and may be renewed after renegotiation.Our semiconductor patent portfolio is an ongoing contributor to our revenue.  We do not consider our business materially dependent upon any one patent or patent license, although taken as a whole, our rights and the products made and sold under patents and patent licenses are important to our business. We often participate in industry initiatives to set technical standards.  Our competitors may participate in the same initiatives.  Participation in these initiatives may require us to license certain of our patents to other companies on reasonable and non-discriminatory terms.We own trademarks that are used in the conduct of our business.  These trademarks are valuable assets, the most important of which are “Texas Instruments” and our corporate monogram.  Other valuable trademarks include DLP®.Research and development Our R&D expense was $1.36 billion in 2014, compared with $1.52 billion in 2013 and $1.88 billion in 2012.  Our primary areas of R&D investment are Analog and Embedded Processing products.  Our R&D has been declining primarily as a result of our decision to wind down investments in legacy wireless products.  This wind-down is now complete.We conduct most of our R&D internally.  However, we also closely engage with a wide range of third parties, including software suppliers, universities and select industry consortia, and we collaborate with our foundry suppliers on semiconductor manufacturing technology.Executive officers of the RegistrantThe following is an alphabetical list of the names and ages of the executive officers and those chosen to become executive officers of the company and the positions or offices with the company held by each person named: NameAgePositionStephen A. Anderson53Senior Vice PresidentBrian T. Crutcher42Executive Vice PresidentR. Gregory Delagi52Senior Vice PresidentJoseph F. Hubach*57Senior Vice President, Secretary and General CounselKevin P. March57Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerKevin J. Ritchie58Senior Vice PresidentRichard K. Templeton56Director; Chairman of the Board; President and Chief Executive OfficerCynthia Hoff Trochu*51Elected to become Senior Vice President, Secretary and General CounselTeresa L. West54Senior Vice PresidentDarla H. Whitaker49Senior Vice PresidentBing Xie47Senior Vice President*Effective August 3, 2015, Mr. Hubach will retire from the company, and Ms. Trochu will succeed him. The term of office of these officers is from the date of their election until their successor shall have been elected and qualified.  All have been employees of the company for more than five years.  Mses. West and Whitaker and Messrs. Anderson, Delagi, 7Hubach, March, Ritchie and Templeton have served as executive officers of the company for more than five years.  Mr. Crutcher became an executive officer of the company in 2010.  Mr. Xie became an executive officer of the company in 2015. Employees At December 31, 2014, we had 31,003 employees.Available information Our Internet address is www.ti.com.  Information on our web site is not a part of this report.  We make available free of charge through our Investor Relations web site our reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with the SEC.  Also available through the TI Investor Relations web site are reports filed by our directors and executive officers on Forms 3, 4 and 5, and amendments to those reports. Available on our web site at www.ti.com/corporategovernance are: (i) our Corporate Governance Guidelines; (ii) charters for the Audit, Compensation, and Governance and Stockholder Relations Committees of our board of directors; (iii) our Code of Business Conduct; and (iv) our Code of Ethics for TI Chief Executive Officer and Senior Finance Officers.  Stockholders may request copies of these documents free of charge by writing to Texas Instruments Incorporated, P.O. Box 660199, MS 8657, Dallas, Texas, 75266-0199, Attention: Investor Relations.