BusinessWe design and make semiconductors that we sell to electronics designers and manufacturers all over the world. Our operations began in 1930, and we are incorporated in Delaware. With headquarters in Dallas, Texas, we have design, manufacturing or sales operations in more than 30 countries. Our two reportable segments are Analog and Embedded Processing, and we report the results of our remaining business activities in Other. In 2020, we generated $14.46 billion of revenue.For decades, we have operated with a passion to create a better world by making electronics more affordable through semiconductors. We were pioneers in the transition from vacuum tubes to transistors and then to integrated circuits. As each generation became more reliable, more affordable and lower in power, semiconductors were used by a growing number of customers and markets. This passion is alive today as we help our customers develop electronics and new applications, particularly in industrial and automotive markets.For many years, we have run our business with three overarching ambitions in mind. First, we will act like owners who will own the company for decades. Second, we will adapt and succeed in a world that is ever changing. And third, we will be a company that we are personally proud to be a part of and that we would want as our neighbor. When we are successful in achieving these ambitions, our employees, customers, communities and shareholders all win.As engineers, we are fortunate to work on exciting technology which helps our customers innovate to create a better world. Technology is the foundation of our company, but ultimately, our objective and the best metric to measure progress and generate long-term value for owners is the growth of free cash flow per share. Our strategy to maximize free cash flow per share growth has three elements: The first element of our strategy is a business model that is focused on analog and embedded processing products and built around four competitive advantages. This business model is the result of a series of strategic decisions made over the years and that continue today. The four sustainable competitive advantages are a strong foundation of manufacturing and technology, a broad portfolio of analog and embedded processing products, the reach of our market channels, and diversity and longevity of our products, markets and customer positions. In combination, these four competitive advantages provide tangible benefits, are difficult to replicate and ultimately separate us from our best peers. Together, these competitive advantages help position TI in a unique class of companies capable of generating and returning significant amounts of cash for our owners. We make our investments with an eye towards long-term strengthening and leveraging of these advantages.The second element of our strategy to maximize free cash flow per share growth is disciplined allocation of capital. This spans how we select R&D projects, develop new capabilities like TI.com, invest in new manufacturing capacity or how we think about acquisitions and returning cash to our owners. Over a 10-year period from 2011 to 2020, we allocated $83 billion, which reinforces the importance of discipline in capital allocation. The largest allocation over this period was to drive organic growth, which includes investments in R&D, sales and marketing, capital expenditures and working capital for inventory. Beyond that, we also allocated capital to dividends and share repurchases. Dividends are designed to appeal to a broad set of investors, and share repurchases are made with the goal of the accretive capture of future free cash flow for long-term investors. Lastly, we allocate to acquisitions for inorganic growth, which we last did in 2011 when we acquired National Semiconductor.The third element of our strategy is efficiency, which we think of as constantly striving for more output for every dollar spent. This is about getting our investments in the most impactful areas to maximize the growth of long-term free cash flow per share; it is not just about optimizing cost-cutting to get to the last dollar of expense. We bring this philosophy of efficiency and continuous improvement to all areas of the company, and this focus on efficiency contributes to revenue growth, improved gross margins, disciplined R&D and SG&A expense, free cash flow margins and ultimately to free cash flow per share growth.We believe that our business model with the combined effect of our four competitive advantages sets TI apart from our peers and will for a long time to come. We will invest to strengthen our competitive advantages, be disciplined in capital allocation and stay diligent in our pursuit of efficiencies. Finally, we will remain focused on the belief that long-term growth of free cash flow per share is the ultimate measure to generate value. 2Product informationSemiconductors are electronic components that serve as the building blocks inside modern electronic systems and equipment. Semiconductors, generally known as “chips,” combine multiple transistors to form a complete electronic circuit. We have a diverse product portfolio that is used to accomplish many different things, such as converting and amplifying signals, interfacing with other devices, managing and distributing power, processing data, canceling noise and improving signal resolution. This broad portfolio includes approximately 80,000 products that are integral to almost every type of electronic equipment.Our segments represent groups of similar products that are combined on the basis of similar design and development requirements, product characteristics, manufacturing processes and distribution channels. Our segments also reflect how management allocates resources and measures results.AnalogOur Analog segment generated $10.89 billion of revenue in 2020. Analog semiconductors change real-world signals, such as sound, temperature, pressure or images, by conditioning them, amplifying them and often converting them to a stream of digital data that can be processed by other semiconductors, such as embedded processors. Analog semiconductors are also used to manage power in all electronic equipment by converting, distributing, storing, discharging, isolating and measuring electrical energy, whether the equipment is plugged into a wall or using a battery. As the digitization of electronics continues, there is a growing need and opportunity for analog chips to provide the power to run devices and the critical interfaces with human beings, the real world and other electronic devices. Our Analog products are used in many markets, particularly industrial, automotive and personal electronics.Sales of our Analog products generated about 75% of our revenue in 2020. Our Analog segment includes the following major product lines: Power and Signal Chain.PowerPower includes products that help customers manage power in electronic systems in all end markets. Our broad portfolio is designed to manage power requirements across different voltage levels, including battery-management solutions, DC/DC switching regulators, AC/DC and isolated controllers and converters, power switches, linear regulators, voltage supervisors, voltage references and lighting products.Signal ChainSignal Chain includes products that sense, condition and measure real-world signals to allow information to be transferred or converted for further processing and control. Our Signal Chain products, which serve a variety of end markets, include amplifiers, data converters, interface products, motor drives, clocks, logic and sensing products.Embedded ProcessingOur Embedded Processing segment generated $2.57 billion of revenue in 2020. Embedded Processing products are the digital “brains” of many types of electronic equipment. They are designed to handle specific tasks and can be optimized for various combinations of performance, power and cost, depending on the application. Our devices vary from simple, low-cost microcontrollers used in applications such as electric toothbrushes to highly specialized, complex devices such as motor control. Our Embedded Processing products are used in many markets, particularly industrial and automotive.An important characteristic of our Embedded Processing products is that our customers often invest their own research and development (R&D) to write software that operates on our products. This investment tends to increase the length of our customer relationships because many customers prefer to reuse software from one product generation to the next.Sales of Embedded Processing products generated about 18% of our revenue in 2020. Our Embedded Processing segment includes microcontrollers, digital signal processors (DSPs) and applications processors. Microcontrollers are self-contained systems with a processor core, memory and peripherals that are designed to control a set of specific tasks for electronic equipment. DSPs perform mathematical computations almost instantaneously to process or improve digital data. Applications processors are designed for specific computing activity.3OtherWe report the results of our remaining business activities in Other, which includes operating segments that do not meet the quantitative thresholds for individually reportable segments and cannot be aggregated with other operating segments. Other generated $1.01 billion of revenue in 2020 and includes revenue from DLP® products (primarily used to project high-definition images), calculators and certain custom semiconductors known as application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs).In Other, we also include items that are not used in evaluating the results of or in allocating resources to our segments. Examples of these items include acquisition charges, restructuring charges and certain corporate-level items, such as litigation expenses, environmental costs and gains and losses from other activities, including asset dispositions.Markets for our productsThe table below lists the major markets for our products in 2020 and the estimated percentage of our 2020 revenue that the market represented. The chart also lists, in declining order of our revenue, the sectors within each market.MarketSectorIndustrialFactory automation & control(37% of TI revenue)MedicalBuilding automationGrid infrastructureAerospace & defenseAppliances Test & measurementMotor drives Power deliveryPro audio, video & signageRetail automation & paymentIndustrial transportLightingAutomotiveInfotainment & cluster(20% of TI revenue)Advanced driver assistance systems (ADAS)Hybrid, electric & powertrain systemsPassive safetyBody electronics & lightingPersonal electronicsMobile phones(27% of TI revenue)PC & notebooksPortable electronicsConnected peripherals & printersTVHome theater & entertainmentTabletsWearables (non-medical)Data storageGamingCommunications equipmentWireless infrastructure(8% of TI revenue)Wired networkingBroadband fixed line accessDatacom moduleEnterprise systemsData center & enterprise computing(6% of TI revenue)Enterprise projectorsEnterprise machineOther (calculators and other)(2% of TI revenue)4Market characteristicsCompetitive landscapeDespite recent consolidation, the analog and embedded processing markets remain highly fragmented. As a result, we face significant global competition from dozens of large and small companies, including both broad-based suppliers and niche suppliers. Our competitors also include emerging companies, particularly in Asia.We believe that competitive performance in the semiconductor market generally depends on several factors, including the breadth of a company’s product line, the strength and reach of its channels to market, technological innovation, product development execution, technical support, customer service, quality, reliability, price and manufacturing capacity and capabilities. In addition, manufacturing process and package technologies that provide differentiated levels of performance and a structural cost advantage are competitive factors for our analog products, and customers’ prior investments in software development is a competitive factor for our embedded processing products.Market cycleThe “semiconductor cycle” refers to the ebb and flow of supply and demand and the building and depleting of inventories. The semiconductor market historically has been characterized by periods of tight supply caused by strengthening demand and/or insufficient manufacturing capacity, followed by periods of surplus inventory caused by weakening demand and/or excess manufacturing capacity. These are typically referred to as upturns and downturns in the semiconductor cycle. A semiconductor cycle could be affected by the significant time and money required to build and maintain semiconductor manufacturing facilities.We employ several strategies which have many benefits, including dampening the effect of the semiconductor cycle on TI. As an example, we are focused on building closer direct relationships with customers. When it comes to market cycles, these relationships provide improved insight into customer demand and allow us to more accurately and efficiently manage factory loadings and inventory levels, which lead to more stable lead times and higher product availability. Finally, we focus our resources on analog and embedded processing products and industrial and automotive markets. Generally, our products serve a large and diverse customer base, which reduces our dependence on the performance of any single product, market or customer. In addition, they typically have long shelf lives and low risk of obsolescence. Industrial and automotive markets also benefit from long product life cycles, with revenue often lasting 10 years or more, which help to smooth the impact of cyclicality.SeasonalityOur revenue is subject to some seasonal variation. Historically, our sequential revenue growth rate tends to be weaker in the first and fourth quarters when compared with the second and third quarters.Customers, sales and distributionWe sell our products to over 100,000 customers. Our customer base is diverse, with more than one-third of our revenue derived from customers outside our largest 100.We market and sell our products through direct sales channels, including our website and broad sales and applications team, and through distributors. Over the past several years, we have been investing in new capabilities and evolving our distribution network to better align with our strategy to establish closer direct relationships with our customers. With less business flowing through the distribution channel, we require fewer distributors. During 2020, we completed our transition to a single worldwide distributor, coupled with a few region-specific distributors, for order fulfillment. Building closer direct customer relationships strengthens our reach of market channel advantage, which gives us access to more customers and more of their design projects, leading to the opportunity to sell more of our products into each design. Additionally, broader and deeper access gives us better insight and knowledge of customer needs.Our investments in new and improved capabilities to directly support our customers include website and e-commerce enhancements as well as inventory consignment programs and order fulfillment services.5ManufacturingSemiconductor manufacturing begins with a sequence of photolithographic and chemical processing steps that fabricate a number of semiconductor devices on a thin silicon wafer. Each device on the wafer is packaged and tested. The entire process takes place in highly specialized facilities that require substantial investments.We own and operate semiconductor manufacturing facilities in North America, Asia, Japan and Europe. These include both wafer fabrication and assembly/test facilities.We invest in manufacturing technologies and do most of our manufacturing in-house. This strategic decision to make manufacturing and technology a core competitive advantage delivers tangible benefits of lower manufacturing costs and greater control of our supply chain. We have focused on creating a competitive manufacturing structural cost advantage by investing in our advanced analog 300-millimeter capacity. An unpackaged chip built on 300-millimeter wafers costs about 40% less than an unpackaged chip built on 200-millimeter wafers. To strengthen this advantage, construction is underway on our new 300-millimeter wafer fabrication facility in Richardson, Texas, as 300-millimeter wafers will continue to support the majority of our Analog growth.We assess and are careful to address potential health, safety, and environmental risks presented by our operations, including our manufacturing operations. We care for our environment and work to prevent pollution and the potential risks related to climate change by implementing practices such as recycling and reusing materials, controlling harmful emissions, and properly handling hazardous and restricted substances.We expect to continue to maintain sufficient internal manufacturing capacity to meet the majority of our production needs and to obtain manufacturing equipment to support new technology developments and revenue growth. To supplement our manufacturing capacity and maximize our responsiveness to customer demand, we selectively use the capacity of outside suppliers, commonly known as foundries, and subcontractors. In 2020, we sourced about 20% of our total wafers from external foundries and about 40% of our assembly/test services from subcontractors.Inventory Our objectives for inventory are to maintain high levels of customer service, maintain stable and competitive lead times, minimize inventory obsolescence and improve manufacturing asset utilization. To meet these objectives and to allow greater flexibility in periods of high demand, we build ahead of demand our broad-based products that are used across a diverse set of applications and customers and have low risk of obsolescence. Inventory levels will vary based on market conditions and seasonality.Raw materialsWe purchase materials, parts and supplies from a number of suppliers. In some cases we purchase such items from sole-source suppliers. The materials, parts and supplies essential to our business are generally available at present, and we believe that such materials, parts and supplies will be available in the foreseeable future.Intellectual propertyWe own many patents and have many patent applications pending in the United States and other countries in fields relating to our business. We have developed a strong, broad-based patent portfolio and continually add patents to that portfolio. We also have license agreements, which vary in duration, involving rights to our portfolio or those of other companies. We do not consider our business materially dependent upon any one patent or patent license.6Executive officers of the RegistrantThe following is an alphabetical list of the names and ages of the executive officers of the company and the positions or offices with the company held by each person named:NameAgePositionAhmad S. Bahai58Senior Vice PresidentKyle M. Flessner50Senior Vice PresidentMark S. Gary46Senior Vice PresidentHaviv Ilan52Executive Vice President and Chief Operating OfficerHagop H. Kozanian38Senior Vice PresidentRafael R. Lizardi48Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting OfficerAmichai Ron43Senior Vice PresidentRichard K. Templeton62Director, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive OfficerCynthia Hoff Trochu57Senior Vice President, Secretary and General CounselJulie M. Van Haren51Senior Vice PresidentDarla H. Whitaker55Senior Vice PresidentThe term of office of these officers is from the date of their election until their successor shall have been elected and qualified. All have been employees of the company for more than five years. Mr. Templeton and Mses. Trochu and Whitaker have served as executive officers of the company for more than five years. Messrs. Ilan and Lizardi and Ms. Van Haren became executive officers of the company in 2017. Messrs. Bahai, Flessner and Kozanian became executive officers of the company in 2018. Mr. Ron became an executive officer in 2019. Mr. Gary became an executive officer in 2020. Human capital managementAt December 31, 2020, we had about 30,000 employees worldwide. Of those, about 85% were in Sales, R&D or manufacturing. Our objective for human capital management is to recruit, develop and retain the best talent possible. As a technology and manufacturing company, our success is grounded in having strong engineering talent and a reliable factory workforce. We have a promote-from-within culture and offer training and rotation programs that provide the opportunity to quickly gain experience in different areas. In 2020, our turnover rate was 7.1%.It is important that our employees represent a mix of experiences and backgrounds in order to make our company stronger, more innovative and more inclusive. Inclusion is one of our core values, and we have programs in place to promote diversity and inclusion. To learn more, review our Corporate Citizenship Report. Information in our Corporate Citizenship Report is not part of this report.Available informationOur internet address is www.ti.com. Information on our website is not part of this report. We make available free of charge through our Investor Relations website our reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with the SEC. Also available through the TI Investor Relations website are reports filed by our directors and executive officers on Forms 3, 4 and 5, and amendments to those reports.Available on our website at www.ti.com/corporategovernance: (i) our Corporate Governance Guidelines; (ii) charters for the Audit, Compensation, and Governance and Stockholder Relations Committees of our board of directors; (iii) our Code of Conduct; and (iv) our Code of Ethics for TI Chief Executive Officer and Senior Finance Officers. Stockholders may request copies of these documents free of charge by writing to Texas Instruments Incorporated, Attention: Investor Relations, P.O. Box 660199, MS 8657, Dallas, Texas, 75266-0199.7