  ANSHUL KUNDAJE: So I want to start by thanking the organizers for giving me this opportunity. I'm going to try to showcase how we can use machine learning methods on large scale biological data to dramatically transform our understanding of the human genome, living cells, and human disease, and taking us one step closer to the dream of personalized medicine. So my lab, basically, at Stanford works on a machine learning methods to decode the genome, and decipher the genomic basis of disease. So let's start off with a basic question of, what is a human genome. OK. So. Right. So, what is a human genome? The human genome is basically a DNA biopolymer. It's a long molecule that's the basic hereditary and functional unit of life. It's present in every cell in the human body. And, as you can see, it's basically made up-- it's a long molecule made up of four basic units symbolized by A, C, G, and D. And it was only in 2003 that we actually obtained the full human genome sequence, the entire three billion letters that make up the human DNA. This was a tremendous effort, took 10 years, $3 billion, and gave us the first draft consensus human genome. Fast forward to today, there's a massive genome revolution-- sequencing evolution-- after the Human Genome Project. And today we can sequence genomes in a matter of a few days for less than $2,000. And that has caused an explosion in, basically, genome sequencing at the population level. So, as I explained before, we got the consensus human genome sequence, but no two individuals are alike. And essentially they're different at specific location in the genome, referred to as genetic variants. And so by sequencing, you know, thousands and ten thousands of individuals, we can start identifying these locations in the genome that across individuals. A really cool application of this is for disease, because you can take these happy controls-- normal, happy individuals-- and you can contrast their genomes against cases of folks who actually have a specific disease. And you can start finding genetic variants that associate statistically with the disease. Right? So we're able to pinpoint genetic positions in the genome that are associated with the disease of interest. Now, this is an example of what a genetic association study looks like. On the x-axis, I'm showing you all the genome itself, every genomic position, 3 billion base pairs. On the y-axis is the statistical significance of association. And each point is essentially one of several million genetic variants. And the height of the variant tells you how significantly it is associated. So far Alzheimer's disease, which is a neurally degenerative disease, you can see a bunch of genetic variants strongly associated with the disease. Right? So this is good. People have been doing this for thousands of diseases, and finding all these interesting genetic variants associated with the disease. But I'll argue that sequencing is not enough. Because it's like having, you know, like a marvelous recipe book to make wonderful dishes, and it's in a foreign language. You don't really understand what it means. So we do need to take this genome, and now add semantic information to it. What does it actually mean? What does that particular A mean in the genome? And what does this particular word mean in the genome? And that's where we come in. So my lab focuses on recording the genome function. And when you talk about decoding the genome function, one thing that's very important to note is you interpret the genome in the context of cell types. And I'll explain this in briefly, there are thousands of cell types and tissues in the human body. They all contain the exact same genome. So how does one genome sequence result in this kind of diversity of cell types, of morphology and function? Right? So, really, how to interpret the genome in the context of its cell type, we're interested in. And the answer is actually quite simple, because it's basically every cell does not use the whole genome. It uses specific pieces of the genome. So it's, again, like giving you analogy of the recipe book to make wonderful dishes. Each cell type is like a dish. OK? And it has a bunch of ingredients. The genome has all the ingredients required to make every cell type. And every cell type besides to pick a subset of ingredients to make that particular cell type. So every cell type focus on a specific region of the-- specific subset of regions in the genome to interpret what it does. So let's get into how we can actually interpret the genome. So we open up the genome sequence, we obtain various types of functional elements. These elements essentially do some kind of work. The most famous and most well-studied of these are genes. The genes essentially encode for proteins, and proteins are the workhorses of the cell. Your genes-- specific genes are activated and repressed in different types of cell types. And genes, you can think of as the ingredients to make the wonderful dish of a cell. You also need certain other kinds of elements. These are control elements that tell the cell which genes should be activated and which should not. OK? And so knowing the precise location and identity of these controlled elements and genes, in different cell types, is essentially going to allow us to decode the genome. So how do we actually do this? Well, the secret is, thankfully, cells use various kinds of biochemical markers, that I show you here as little red, yellow green flags. Each of these biochemical markers mark different types of elements. These include the control elements as well as the genes. And so NIH was very smart about this, and funded a very large scale project, two consortia called ENCODE and Roadmap, and they basically measured genome-wide-- across the entire genome-- hundreds of biochemical markers, in hundreds of different cell types. So the whole-- this massive data cube of information, we know how to make sense of. This where we come in. So we apply machine learning probabilistic models and deep learning methods to take this massive data cube of information and transform it into some kind of integrative functional annotation of the genome. So let's see what that looks like. Right here I'm showing you a specific region of the genome, a very interesting gene called Bax 5. It has a very important function in immune system biology. And if you notice, just focus on the colors. If you see something red and yellow, it means it's an active control element. If you see something green, it means it's an active gene. And if you see something grey, it means it's a repressed region. So, as you can see in embryonic stem cells, this particular locus is largely grey. It's inactive. If I switch now to blood cells-- various types of blood cells-- you notice in a particular set of t cells, all of the sudden, the gene becomes active and a bunch of control elements also activate. And, again, if you go now to various other types of cells, that region is again repressed. So from this you can see that Bax 5-- that Bax 5 locus, that gene-- potentially has a very interesting and cell type-specific role in immune function. So how is this actually relevant? Well, after having done this analysis across the whole genome, integrating this entire date cube, we identified 2 million normal control elements in the human genome. OK? And these 2 million elements control just 20,000 genes. So extremely complicated control circuitry, to control these 20,000 genes, and they have highly cell type-specific activity. Now, why is this relevant to disease? Right? We're able to get a beautiful, functional annotation of the genome. The reason this is relevant to disease is because if you take the disease associated variants that I talked about before, that are found by genome wide association studies, only about 5% actually break genes. The remaining 95% are actually outside genes, in non-coding regions, affecting likely these control elements. I'll give you one really quick example. Literally in one minute, Steve. Going back to Alzheimer's example, remember when we had a bunch of these genetic variants associated with Alzheimer's? More than half of them are not breaking genes. They're actually in the non-coding portion of the genome. We can answer a very simple question. Which cell type manifests the effects of Alzheimer's? It's a neurodegenerative disorder, right? So you might guess neurons. Well, we did a simple analysis where we took all these Alzheimer's-associated genetic variants, and all of them with the control element landscapes of each of the hundreds of cell types that we actually had in our database. And we realized that it was not neuronal cells, but immune cell types, that really pop up as being harbors of genetic variants associated with Alzheimer's disease. And so this gives us interesting new clues-- extremely counter intuitive clues-- about how to actually analyze disease. And this was validated in a mouse model as well. In the interest of time, I'll actually skip the slide, but we are also able to identify interesting and important neuro drug targets for Alzheimer's using this approach. And I'll just end by I think motivating something very important. That is, just like Fei-Fei talked about, the ImageNet data, which actually dramatically changed vision. I think similarly in biology, data sets like the ENCODE project have dramatically changed how researchers are able to get access and solve disease. And so many researchers have been using our open data base to perform a variety of interesting research in a variety of diseases. As you can see here, the number of peoples has been exponentially increasing every year using our data sets. And most of them are not from our consortium, but rather from the community. I'll just stop there and say that I think it's pretty clear that the future of medicine, personalized medicine, is highly interconnected with the future of AI. Are we going to have to integrate very large scale data sets involving personal genomes, large scale functional genomic data, electronic health records in a longitudinal fashion. And machine learning is going to play a key role in transforming this data into essentially predictive prognostics, diagnostics, smaller drug targets, and optimal treatment strategies. Thank you. 