 Welcome to this ModusQA video tutorial on how to set up and assemble all the different components of the quasar MRI-4D motion phantom. The body Oval phantom comes with a motor drive unit along with two interchangeable inserts with user configurable lids and seal rings. The dual position lid allows for targets to be mounted at center or offset positions. After selecting your required configuration align the detents on the lid and insert body and tighten the block locking ring collar to secure the assembly. Depending on your QA application you have the flexibility to leave the inserts empty or fill them with user selected media as shown here. To fill the insert begin by using the supplied screw driver bit to remove the four screws that secure the sealing cap then remove the cap and use the bit again to carefully scoop out the blue seal. Next simply add your liquid media or gel Dosimeter until it is completely filled. Pour the media slowly to help avoid aeration and let it sit without the cap long enough to ensure there are no remaining air bubbles trapped inside. Reinstall the seal cap and screws. It is important to note that the screw driver bit is made of ferrous materials and is not MR safe never bring it into the MR room and only use the bit by hand to avoid over torquing the screws. The body oval may also be filled if required by following the same procedure this 20 centimeter deep oval contains offset and central cylindrical through-holes which provide low or medium body mass attenuation for interchangeable inserts. Determine whether the phantom will be used in head first or feet first orientation and orient the oval on the patient table with the offset through-hole in the necessary location. To use a stationary insert select either the offset or central through-hole and on the side opposite to where the drive unit will attach slide the insert into the through-hole until the top cap has gone past flush. Then slip the ring clamp into position on the oval by lowering it carefully onto the dovetails. Push the insert back so the neck is protruding from the ring clamp and tighten the thumb screw to secure the assembly. This is what it should look like when installed correctly. To connect the motor drive unit to the body of phantom again select the desired through-hole align the units with the dovetails and link them together by lifting the drive unit up and sliding it down and over the dovetail as demonstrated. After ensuring this mounted correctly tighten the thumb screw to lock the drive unit with the body of a phantom place the motion insert into the corresponding through-hole and line up the markings on the end of the drive unit finger clamp. The white and black lines should be in alignment and the block index strip will keep the insert from spinning out of place. Push the insert into the end of the clamp and tighten the collar to secure the fingers of the clamp. Please do not lift and carry the body of a phantom when it is full of liquid and connected to the motor drive unit to avoid failure of the dovetail coupling mechanism and the risk of injury to the end-user. The body oval phantom must be detached from the motor drive unit before lifting or carrying it. It is acceptable to adjust and reposition the completely assembled phantom by carefully sliding it into  position for landmarking purposes. Always place the phantom assembly on a level flat and even surface to avoid transitions in height and unwanted stress. These situations can be encountered when using accessory coils underneath the motion phantom. For example a spinal array coil placed on the patient table may have a comfort pad height that will be higher or lower than the patient table's comfort pad height leading to a transition that will incline the motor and phantom assembly if placed over the transition. This will cause the inserts to be out of plane due to the angle of the body oval phantom and will further apply unnecessary stress or strain on the motor drive unit's dovetail coupling mechanism users are advised to utilize existing foam comfort pads provided with your MR system to create a flat surface suitable for the motion phantom. Attach the blue motor cable to the motion unit and tighten the two thumb screws to prevent the cable from vibrating loose at this point you may use the laser marks edged into the oval body phantom to align the assembly with the MRI machine the control box contains ferrous content do not use or store the control box in the MR room if you must transport the control box through the MR room to an equipment room do not cross the 5-Gauss line. The preferred method of connecting the cable into the MR room will require you to use a penetration panel in the equipment room if using the penetration panel attach the motor cable to a 15-pin D-SUB unfiltered adapter on the panel and make note of this location. Bring the control box into the equipment room and attach a second cable from the corresponding location on the penetration panel to the control box. If convenient and accessible you may be able to pull the cable through a waveguide to the console room this may be helpful if the waveguide is located close to the MR console for operator convenience this configuration will require the use of an adapter to link the cables together and provide a common ground point. Be sure to insert the supplied brass sponges around this connection in order to ground the cable to the waveguide conduit. In the console room you can then connect the other end of the cable to the control box and secure with the two thumb screws. For the preferred equipment room set up through the patch panel use an existing ethernet port in the equipment room to connect the control box to your computer via the network. For the alternate console room setup through a waveguide attach the included ethernet cable directly to the control box and your computer. Connect the power supply to a wall outlet and the other end into the control box lastly open up the computer software and connect to the phantom. The MRI-4D phantom is capable of moving inserts in this superior/inferior direction as well as producing a more complex 3D motion profile by twisting the insert during translation. To switch motion types you will need to use the computer software to center the phantom and confirm it is center by visually aligning the white indicator markings on the translation stage. Next you will need to remove the thumb screw from its current position and secure it into the threaded hole next to it do not overtighten. The phantom is now ready for use, that concludes this video tutorial thank you for watching. For more information please visit ModusQA.com or write to Info@ModusQA.com 