BUSINESSOverviewSalesforce is a leading provider of enterprise software, delivered through the cloud, with a focus on customer relationship management, or CRM. We introduced our first CRM solution in 2000, and we have since expanded our service offerings into new areas and industries with new editions, features and platform capabilities. Our core mission is to empower our customers to connect with their customers in entirely new ways through cloud, mobile, social, Internet of Things (“IoT”) and artificial intelligence technologies. Our service offerings are intuitive and easy to use. They can be deployed rapidly, configured easily and integrated with other platforms and enterprise applications, or apps. We deliver our service offerings via major internet browsers and on leading mobile devices. We sell to businesses of all sizes and in almost every industry worldwide on a subscription basis, primarily through our direct sales efforts and also indirectly through partners. Through our platform and other developer tools, we also encourage third parties to develop additional functionality and new apps that run on our platform, which are sold separately from, or in conjunction with, our service offerings.Our Customer Success Platform is a comprehensive portfolio of service offerings providing sales force automation, customer service and support, marketing automation, digital commerce, community management, analytics, application development, IoT integration, collaborative productivity tools and our professional cloud services. Salesforce also believes in giving back. We pioneered, and have inspired other companies to adopt, an integrated philanthropy model called the 1-1-1 model, which leverages 1% of a company's equity, employee time and product to help improve communities around the world. We also believe in equality for all, and have spearheaded initiatives to create a world where equal pay, equal advancement, equal opportunity and equal rights become a reality for our employees and the broader world.3Table of ContentsWe were incorporated in Delaware in February 1999. Our principal executive offices are located in San Francisco, California, and our principal website address is www.salesforce.com. Our office address is The Landmark @ One Market, Suite 300, San Francisco, California 94105.The Age of the CustomerAt Salesforce, we believe we are living in the single most innovative era in history, as everyone and every thing becomes connected. There are now billions of mobile phones and intelligent connected devices. And behind each and every device, interaction, product and connected community is a customer. Companies have the opportunity to harness all of this information about customers in new and extraordinary ways, enabling them to intelligently connect and engage with customers across every part of the customer experience.Our Customer Success Platform provides a single view of the customer across all touchpoints. We bring together the power of cloud, mobile, social, IoT and artificial intelligence technologies, enabling our customers to harness data and deliver the connected experiences their customers are increasingly coming to expect.Our Cloud Service OfferingsOur cloud service offerings empower our customers to: •grow their sales faster;•deliver customer service through multiple devices and channels;•create one-to-one customer journeys;•personalize buying experiences across all channels;•build branded communities for customers, partners and employees;•deliver analytics and predictive insights for every business user;•turn data generated by the IoT into meaningful actions;•collaborate on documents, spreadsheets and more to improve productivity, and;•develop modern mobile and desktop apps quickly and easily.Our cloud service offerings are as follows:Sales Cloud. The Sales Cloud, which was our first offering and continues to be the largest contributor to total subscription and support revenues, enables companies to store data, monitor leads and progress, forecast opportunities, gain insights through relationship intelligence and collaborate around any sale on desktop and mobile devices. Our customers use the Sales Cloud to grow their sales pipelines, improve sales productivity, simplify complex business processes and close more deals. The Sales Cloud also offers solutions for partner relationship management, including channel management and partner communities, and the ability to deliver quotes, contracts and invoices to improve forecasting and collect payments faster. Service Cloud. The Service Cloud, which is our second largest contributor to total subscription and support revenues, enables companies to deliver smarter, faster and more personalized customer service and support. Our customers use the Service Cloud to connect their service agents with customers anytime and anywhere, on popular devices and across multiple channels — phone, email, chat, live video, SMS, self-service web portals, social networks, online communities and directly within their own products and mobile apps. In addition, Service Cloud also offers a field service solution that enables companies to connect agents, dispatchers and mobile employees through one centralized platform, through which they can schedule and dispatch work intelligently, and track and manage jobs in real-time.Marketing Cloud. The Marketing Cloud enables companies to plan, personalize and optimize one-to-one customer interactions across email, mobile, social, web and connected products. In addition, companies can segment and target audiences to power precise digital marketing at scale. With the Marketing Cloud, customer data can also be integrated with the Sales Cloud and Service Cloud in the form of leads, contacts and customer service cases to give companies a complete view of their customers.Commerce Cloud. The Commerce Cloud empowers brands to deliver a comprehensive digital commerce experience across web, mobile, social and store. It also offers mobile-first point-of-sale and store operations capabilities that increase store personnel effectiveness, connecting the physical and digital commerce experiences.Community Cloud. The Community Cloud enables companies to quickly create and manage trusted, branded digital destinations for customers, partners and employees. This allows companies to engage and collaborate directly with groups of people by giving them access to relevant information, apps and experts.IoT Cloud. The IoT Cloud enables companies to harness the power behind billions of connected devices, products, sensors and apps to derive entirely new levels of customer insights. With those insights, companies can sell, service and market to their customers in smarter, more personalized ways, and engage proactively with them in real time. 4Table of ContentsAnalytics Cloud. The Analytics Cloud enables any employee across an organization to quickly and easily explore business data, uncover new insights, make smarter decisions and take action from any device. The Analytics Cloud embeds insights related to the context of the business users' roles directly into the workflows and apps they use to make analytics easier and more intuitive, collaborative and actionable.Salesforce Quip. Salesforce Quip is a next-generation productivity solution designed for teams with a mobile-first strategy, empowering everyone to collaborate more effectively, work smarter and supercharge their productivity, all without email. Salesforce Quip combines documents, spreadsheets, task lists and team chat in one seamless experience known as a “living document.”Salesforce Platform. The Salesforce Platform (formerly App Cloud) is for building enterprise apps — powering Salesforce's CRM apps, with thousands of partner-built apps and millions of custom apps built by customers.  The Salesforce Platform offers a new continuum of tools, frameworks and services that customers and partners need to build connected apps fast. Professional Cloud ServicesWe offer professional cloud services including consulting, deployment, training, user-centric design and integration to help customers to achieve business results faster through adoption of Salesforce solutions. We also offer architects and innovation program teams that act as advisors to plan and execute digital transformations for our customers, providing mission critical support, cloud specialists and pre-packaged accelerators that allow our customers to build on the best practices of our community. We offer several education service offerings to our customers and partners, ranging from introductory online courses to advanced architecture certifications. With the Trailhead learning platform, our customers and partners have access to free online courses that address topics such as using and administering our services and developing on our platform. For more advanced education, we offer instructor-led and online courses to certify our customers and partners on architecting, administering, deploying and developing our service offerings. In addition, we make available a selection of online educational classes at no charge to customers that subscribe to our customer service plans. Business Benefits of Using Our SolutionThe key advantages of our solution include:Secure, private, scalable and reliable. Our service has been designed to provide our customers with privacy and high levels of performance, reliability and security. We have built, and continue to invest in, a comprehensive security infrastructure, including firewalls, intrusion detection systems, and encryption for transmissions over the Internet, which we monitor and test on a regular basis. We built and maintain a multi-tenant application architecture that has been designed to enable our service to scale securely, reliably and cost effectively. Our multi-tenant application architecture maintains the integrity and separation of customer data while still permitting all customers to use the same application functionality simultaneously.Rapid deployment and lower total cost of ownership. Our services can be deployed rapidly since our customers do not have to spend time procuring, installing or maintaining the servers, storage, networking equipment, security products or other hardware and software. We enable customers to achieve up-front savings relative to the traditional enterprise software model. Customers benefit from the predictability of their future costs since they generally pay for the service on a per subscriber basis for the term of the subscription contract.Ease of integration and configuration. Information technology (“IT”) professionals are able to integrate and configure our solutions with existing applications quickly and seamlessly. We provide a set of application programming interfaces (“APIs”) that enable customers and independent software developers to both integrate our solution with existing third-party, custom and legacy apps and write their own application services that integrate with our solutions. For example, many of our customers use our Salesforce Platform (formerly App Cloud) API to move customer-related data from custom-developed and packaged applications into our services on a periodic basis to provide greater visibility into their activities.High levels of user adoption. We have designed our solutions to be intuitive and easy to use. Our solutions contain many tools and features recognizable to users of popular consumer web services, so users have a more familiar user experience than typical enterprise applications. As a result, our users can often use and gain benefit from our solutions with minimal training. We have also designed our solutions to be used on popular mobile devices, making it possible for people to conduct business from their phones. Rapid development of apps and increased innovation. Our customers and third-party developers can create apps rapidly because of the ease of use and the benefits of a multi-tenant platform. We provide the capability for business users to easily configure our applications to suit their specific needs, and also support a variety of programming languages so developers can code complex apps spanning multiple business processes and deliver them via multiple mobile devices. By 5Table of Contentsproviding infrastructure and development environments on demand, we provide developers the opportunity to create new and innovative apps without having to invest in hardware. Developers with ideas for a new app can create, test and support their solutions on the Salesforce Platform and make the app accessible for a subscription fee to customers.Continuous innovation. We release hundreds of new features to all of our customers three times a year. Our metadata-driven, global multi-tenant cloud runs on a single code base, which enables every customer to run their business on the latest release without disruption. Because we deploy all upgrades on our servers, new features and functionality automatically become part of our service on the upgrade release date and therefore benefits all of our customers immediately.Positive environmental impact. Our multi-tenant cloud computing model has a much smaller environmental footprint than traditional IT hardware and software. When organizations move business applications to Salesforce, they can significantly reduce their energy use and carbon footprint compared to traditional on-premises solutions.Our StrategyKey elements of our strategy include:Extending existing service offerings. We offer multiple editions of our service offerings at different price points to meet the needs of customers of different sizes and we have designed our solutions to easily accommodate new features and functionality. We intend to continue to extend all editions of our solutions with new features, functions and increased security through our own development, acquisitions and partnerships. Over the last year, for example, we have invested heavily in artificial intelligence capabilities to create Salesforce Einstein, which will allow users of our products to deliver more predictive customer experiences. Cross selling and upselling. We see significant opportunity to deepen our relationships with our existing customers. As our customers realize the benefits of our services, we aim to upgrade the customer to premium editions and sell more subscriptions by targeting additional functional areas and business units, ultimately becoming our customers' trusted advisors, inspiring enterprise-wide transformation and accelerating strategic engagements through direct engagement with the highest levels of our customers' executive management.  Expanding into new horizontal markets. As part of our growth strategy, we are delivering innovative solutions in new categories, including analytics, commerce and IoT. We drive innovation both organically and through acquisitions, such as our July 2016 acquisition of Demandware, a digital commerce leader. Targeting vertical markets. In order to meet the needs of our customers in certain industries, we also provide solutions specifically built for certain vertical industries, such as financial services, healthcare and government. Extending go-to-market capabilities. We believe that our offerings provide significant value for businesses of any size. We will continue to pursue businesses of all sizes in top industries and major regions globally, primarily through our direct sales force. We have steadily increased and plan to continue to increase the number of direct sales professionals we employ, and we intend to develop additional distribution channels for our solutions around the globe. Reducing customer attrition. Our goal is to have all of our customers renew their subscriptions prior to the end of their contractual terms. We run customer success and other related programs in an effort to secure renewals of existing customers.Encouraging the development of third-party applications on our cloud computing platforms. The Salesforce Platform enables existing customers, independent software vendors (“ISVs”) and third-party developers to create and deliver cloud-based apps. It is a platform on which apps can be created, tested, published and run. In addition, these apps can be marketed and sold on the AppExchange, our online marketplace for business apps, or sold directly by software vendors. We believe our ecosystem of developers and software vendors will address the business requirements of both current and future customers.In addition to the key elements of our business strategy described above, from time to time, we evaluate opportunities to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services and technologies, and intellectual property rights.  This evaluation resulted in our acquisition in fiscal 2017 of several companies, such as: •SteelBrick, Inc., which provides us with apps to automate the quote-to-cash process, •MetaMind, Inc., which allows us to extend our intelligence in natural language processing and image recognition across our clouds,  •BeyondCore, Inc., which provides us with smart data discovery technology that automatically explores millions of variable combinations from structured data sources,•Demandware, Inc., which allows us to expand our position in CRM and pursue the digital commerce market, •Quip, Inc., which provides us with a next generation productivity solution, and •Krux Digital, Inc., which provides us with a data management platform. 6Table of ContentsPrior to this acquisition activity, our most significant acquisition was ExactTarget, Inc. in fiscal 2014.Technology, Development and OperationsWe deliver our Salesforce solutions as highly scalable, cloud computing application and platform services on a multi-tenant technology architecture. Multi-tenancy is an architectural approach that allows us to operate a single application instance for multiple organizations, treating all customers as separate tenants who run in virtual isolation from each other. Customers can use and customize an application as though they each have a separate instance, and their data and customizations remain secure and insulated from the activities of all other tenants. Our multi-tenant services run on a single stack of hardware and software, which is comprised of commercially available hardware and a combination of proprietary and commercially available software. As a result, we are able to spread the cost of delivering our services across our user base. In addition, because we do not have to manage thousands of distinct applications with their own business logic and database schemas, we believe that we can scale our business faster than traditional software vendors. Moreover, we can focus our resources on building new functionality to deliver to our customer base as a whole rather than on maintaining an infrastructure to support each of their distinct applications. Multi-tenancy also allows for faster bug and security fixes, automatic software updates and the ability to deploy major releases and frequent, incremental improvements to our services, benefiting the entire user community.Our services are optimized to run on specific databases and operating systems using the tools and platforms best suited to serve our customers rather than on-premise software that must be written to the different hardware, operating systems and database platforms existing within a customer’s unique systems environment. Our developers build and support solutions and features on a single code base on our chosen technology platform. Our efforts are focused on improving and enhancing the features, functionality, performance, availability and security of our existing service offerings as well as developing new features, functionality and services. From time to time, we supplement our internal research and development activities with outside development resources and acquired technology. As part of our business strategy, we periodically acquire companies or technologies, and we incorporate the acquired technologies into our solutions. Performance, functional depth, security and the usability of our solutions influence our technology decisions and product direction.Our customers access our services over the Internet via all of the major Internet browsers and on most major mobile device operating systems.We provide the majority of our services to our customers from infrastructure operated by us but secured within third-party data center hosting facilities located in the United States and other countries. These third-party data center providers provide space, physical security, continuous power and cooling. The remainder of our services operate from cloud computing platform providers who offer Infrastructure as a Service, including servers, storage, databases and networking.Sources of RevenueAll of the cloud offerings that we offer to customers are grouped into four major core cloud service offerings:  Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Salesforce Platform and Other, and Marketing Cloud. Our subscription and support revenues are disaggregated into these four core offerings. For a more detailed discussion, see the “Revenue by Cloud Service Offering” discussion in Management’s Discussion and Analysis.We derive our revenues primarily from subscription fees for our service. We also derive revenues from premier support, which provides customers with additional support beyond the standard support that is included in the basic subscription fee. We recognize subscription and support revenue ratably over the contract term, beginning on the commencement date of each contract. We enter into professional services contracts that are on a time and materials, fixed fee or subscription basis. We recognize revenue as the services are rendered for time and materials contracts, when the milestones are achieved and accepted by the customer or on a proportional performance basis for fixed price contracts and ratably over the contract term for subscription professional services.  Amounts that have been invoiced are recorded in accounts receivable and in deferred revenue or revenue, depending on whether the revenue recognition criteria have been met. Deferred revenue primarily consists of billings or payments received in advance of revenue recognition from subscription services described above and is recognized as the revenue recognition criteria are met. Unbilled deferred revenue represents future billings under our subscription agreements that have not been invoiced and, accordingly, are not recorded in deferred revenue. We generally invoice customers in annual installments. Deferred revenue and unbilled deferred revenue are influenced by several factors, including new business seasonality within the year, the specific timing, size and duration of large customer subscription agreements, the timing and compounding 7Table of Contentseffects of customer renewals, varying billing cycles of subscription agreements, invoice timing, foreign currency fluctuations and new business linearity within the quarter.CustomersWe sell to businesses of all sizes and in almost every industry worldwide. The number of paying subscriptions at each of our customers ranges from one to hundreds of thousands. None of our customers accounted for more than five percent of our revenues in fiscal 2017, 2016 or 2015.Sales, Marketing and Customer SupportWe organize our sales and marketing programs by geographic regions, such as the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific, which includes Japan. The majority of our revenue from the Americas is attributable to customers in the United States. Approximately 26 percent of our revenue comes from customers outside of the Americas.Direct SalesWe sell our services primarily through our direct sales force, which is comprised of telephone sales personnel based in regional hubs, and field sales personnel based in territories close to their customers. Both our telephone sales and field sales personnel are supported by sales representatives, who are primarily responsible for generating qualified sales leads. Referral and Indirect SalesWe have a network of partners who refer sales leads to us and who then assist in selling to these prospects.This network includes global consulting firms, systems integrators and other partners. In return, we typically pay these partners a fee based on the first-year subscription revenue generated by the customers whom they refer. We continue to invest in developing additional distribution channels for our subscription service.Strategic Investments  Since 2009, we have been investing in early-to-late stage technology and professional cloud service companies across the globe to support our key business initiatives, which include, among other things, extending the capabilities of our platform and CRM offerings, increasing the ecosystem of enterprise cloud companies and partners, accelerating the adoption of cloud technologies and creating the next-generation of mobile applications and connected products. Our minority investments in over 180 companies as of January 31, 2017 also help us stay connected with the pace of innovation that is currently occurring within the technology industry. In some cases, we have acquired companies in which we have previously invested. Because of the inherent risk in investing in early-to-late stage technology companies, our individual investments are subject to a risk of partial or total loss of investment capital. MarketingOur marketing strategy is to promote our brand and generate demand for our offerings. We use a variety of marketing programs across traditional and social channels to target our prospective and current customers, partners and developers. We focus our marketing activities on the cities and countries with the largest market opportunity. Our primary marketing activities include:•Multi-channel marketing campaigns that span email, social, web and more that align to a broader customer journey;•Proprietary events of all sizes, ranging from Dreamforce to salon dinners, as well as participation in trade shows and industry events, to create customer and prospect awareness;•Press and industry analyst relations to garner third-party validation and generate positive coverage for our company, offerings and value proposition;•Content marketing and engagement on all of the major social channels;•Search engine marketing and advertising to drive traffic to our Web properties;•Partner co-marketing activities with global and regional implementation partners;•Web site development to engage and educate prospects and generate interest through product information and demonstrations, case studies, white papers and marketing collateral;•Customer testimonials; •Tools that enable our sales organization to more effectively convert leads into customers; and8Table of Contents•Event sponsorships and primary real estate signage.Customer Service and SupportOur global customer support group responds to both business and technical inquiries about the use of our products via the web, telephone, email, social networks and other channels. We provide standard customer support during regular business hours at no charge to customers who purchase any of our paying subscription editions. We also offer premier customer support that is either included in a premium offering or sold for an additional fee, which can include services such as priority access to technical resources, developer support, and system administration. In addition, we offer a mission critical support add-on that is designed to provide customers with responses for incidents from a dedicated team knowledgeable about the customer's specific enterprise architecture, and which offers instruction to optimize their usage of our products.SeasonalityOur fourth quarter has historically been our strongest quarter for new business and renewals, and our first quarter is our largest collections and operating cash flow quarter. For a more detailed discussion, see the “Seasonal Nature of Deferred Revenue and Accounts Receivable” discussion in Management’s Discussion and Analysis.CompetitionThe market for our service offerings is highly competitive, rapidly evolving and fragmented, and subject to changing technology, shifting customer needs and frequent introductions of new products and services. Many prospective customers have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to implement and integrate their current enterprise software into their businesses and therefore may be reluctant or unwilling to migrate away from their current solution to an enterprise cloud computing application service. Additionally, third-party developers may be reluctant to build application services on our platform since they have invested in other competing technology platforms.We compete primarily with generalized platforms and vendors of packaged business software, as well as companies offering enterprise apps, including CRM, collaboration, e-commerce and business intelligence software. We also compete with internally developed apps. We may encounter competition from established enterprise software vendors, as well as start-up and midsized companies focused on disruption, who may develop toolsets and products that allow customers to build new apps that run on the customers’ current infrastructure or as hosted services. Our current competitors include:•On-premises offerings from enterprise software application vendors;•Cloud computing application service providers, either individually or with others;•Marketing vendors, which may be specialized in advertising, targeting, messaging, or campaign automation;•Software companies that provide their product or service free of charge, and only charge a premium for advanced features and functionality;•Traditional platform development environment companies;•Cloud computing development platform companies; •Internally developed applications (by our potential customers’ IT departments);•IoT platforms from large companies that have existing relationships with hardware and software companies;•E-commerce solutions from emerging cloud-only vendors and established on-premises vendors; and•Artificial intelligence solutions from new startups and established companies.We believe that as traditional enterprise software application and platform vendors shift more of their focus to cloud computing, they may become a greater competitive threat.Intellectual PropertyWe rely on a combination of trademark, copyright, trade secret and patent laws in the United States and other jurisdictions as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology and our brands and maintain programs to protect and grow our rights. We also enter into confidentiality and proprietary rights agreements with our employees, consultants and other third parties and control access to software, services, documentation and other proprietary information. We believe the duration of our patents is adequate relative to the expected lives of our service offerings. We also purchase or license technology that we incorporate into our products or services. At times, we make select intellectual property broadly available at no or low cost to achieve a strategic objective, such as promoting industry standards, advancing interoperability, fostering open source software or attracting and enabling our external development community. While it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of our products and business methods, we believe, based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. We believe our continuing research and product development are not materially dependent on any single license or other agreement with a third party relating to the development of our products.9Table of ContentsEmployeesAs of January 31, 2017, we had more than 25,000 employees. None of our employees in the United States are represented by a labor union, however, for certain foreign subsidiaries, workers’ councils represent our employees.Available InformationYou can obtain copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other filings with the SEC, and all amendments to these filings, free of charge from our website at http://www.salesforce.com/company/investor/sec-filings/ as soon as reasonably practicable following our filing of any of these reports with the SEC. You can also obtain copies free of charge by contacting our Investor Relations department at our office address listed above. The public may read and copy any materials