BUSINESSOverviewSalesforce is a global leader in customer relationship management (“CRM”) technology that enables companies to improve their relationships and interactions with customers. Founded in 1999, Salesforce empowers companies of every size and industry to connect with their customers in new ways through existing and emerging technologies, including cloud, mobile, social, Internet of Things (“IoT”) and artificial intelligence (“AI”), to grow their business and work more productively.The Salesforce Customer Success Platform delivers services spanning sales, service, marketing, commerce, engagement, integration, analytics, industries, communities, enablement and collaboration, most of which operate on a single trusted cloud platform. Our service offerings are designed to be intuitive and easy to use. They can be deployed quickly via mobile devices and major internet browsers, configured easily, and integrated with other platforms and enterprise applications. We sell to businesses worldwide primarily on a subscription basis, through our direct sales efforts and also indirectly through partners. Through our platform and other developer tools, we also enable third parties to develop additional functionality and new applications, or apps, that run on our platform, which are sold separately from—or in conjunction with—our service offerings.Salesforce operates based on a core set of values: trust, customer success, innovation and equality. Foremost among these is trust, which is the foundation for everything we do. Our customers trust our technology to deliver the highest levels of security, reliability and availability at scale. We believe our continuous innovation and the democratization of both technology 3Table of Contentsand innovation drives customer success, which in turn drives mutual growth. In addition, we have spearheaded initiatives that foster a culture of equal pay, equal advancement, equal opportunity and equal rights for our more than 35,000 employees as a leading example for the broader world.We believe the business of business is improving the state of the world for all of our stakeholders, including our stockholders, our customers, our employees, the environment and the communities in which we work and live. Salesforce is committed to transparent environmental, social and governance disclosures and maintaining programs that support the success of these initiatives. Refer to our "Environmental, Social and Governance" discussion in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference.We were incorporated in Delaware in February 1999. Our principal executive offices are located in San Francisco, California. Our principal address is Salesforce Tower, 415 Mission St, 3rd Floor, San Francisco, California 94105, and our primary website address is www.salesforce.com.Our Service OfferingsOur cloud service offerings are as follows:Sales Cloud. Sales Cloud empowers sales teams of companies of every size and industry to sell faster, smarter and in the way they want. Our customers use Sales Cloud to store data, monitor leads and progress, forecast opportunities, gain insights through analytics and relationship intelligence, and deliver quotes, contracts and invoices.Service Cloud. Service Cloud enables companies to deliver smarter, faster and more personalized customer service and support. Our customers use Service Cloud to connect their service agents with customers anytime and anywhere, on popular devices and across multiple channels: phone, email, messaging, chat, live video, SMS, self-service web portals, social networks, online communities and directly within their own products and mobile apps. In addition, Service Cloud offers a field service solution that enables companies to connect agents, dispatchers and mobile employees through one centralized platform, on which they can schedule and dispatch work intelligently, and track and manage jobs in real-time.Marketing and Commerce Cloud. Marketing Cloud enables companies to plan, personalize and optimize one-to-one customer marketing journeys, including interactions across email, mobile, social, web and connected products. In addition, companies can segment and target audiences to power precise digital marketing at scale. With Marketing Cloud, customer data can also be integrated with Sales Cloud and Service Cloud in the form of leads, contacts and customer service cases to give companies a complete view of their customers. Our Commerce Cloud empowers brands to unify the customer experience across all points of commerce, including mobile, web, social and store. With embedded AI that delivers a personalized shopping experience and a robust partner ecosystem, Commerce Cloud helps companies drive increased engagement, conversion, revenue and loyalty from their customers.Salesforce Platform and Other. The Salesforce Platform includes:Lightning Platform. Lightning Platform empowers Information Technology (“IT”), developers and business users with the industry's leading no-code to pro-code Platform-as-a-Service tools for building, securing, integrating and managing the business apps that power today's customer experiences. With the Lightning Platform, enterprises drive digital transformation at scale by building applications for any business need. Lightning Platform includes complete, intelligent analytics capabilities so customers can explore their business data, uncover new insights, make smarter decisions and take action from any device. Lightning Platform also includes Trailhead for Enablement, our free, gamified, interactive online learning platform that allows anyone to learn in-demand Salesforce skills, including administering our services and developing on the Salesforce Platform. Lightning Platform also includes our Heroku Engagement Platform, which enables developers to build, run and operate applications entirely in the cloud.Integration. MuleSoft Anypoint Platform enables our customers to connect any system, application, data or device, whether in the cloud or on-premises, on a unified platform using application networks instead of inflexible custom code. By unlocking data across their enterprise, our customers can create new revenue opportunities, increase operational efficiency and create differentiated customer experiences.Collaboration. Quip Collaboration Platform combines documents, spreadsheets, apps, and chat with live CRM data to deliver a central hub for teams to create, collaborate and get work done. Built mobile-first, Quip breaks down communication barriers and silos to enable every business to collaborate online, offline and from almost any device.Most of our service offerings operate on a single customer success platform and are deployed in an identical way even though we have offerings in multiple enterprise cloud computing markets, including as a result of our acquisitions. Our core offerings are suited to meet the needs of our customers in certain industries, such as solutions for financial services, healthcare and government. Additionally, our core offerings enable companies to quickly create and manage trusted, branded digital destinations for customers, partners and employees, collectively referred to as community management. This allows companies to engage and collaborate directly with groups of people by giving them access to relevant information, apps and experts.4Table of ContentsAdditionally, through Salesforce Customer 360, our new cross-cloud technology initiative that enhances the integration of our Marketing, Commerce, and Service clouds, we will enable companies to connect their customer data across the various offerings and deliver a unified customer experience. Customer 360 is designed to help companies move beyond an app- or department-specific view of each customer by making it easier to create a single, holistic customer profile to inform every interaction.Business Benefits of Using Our SolutionThe key advantages of our solutions include the following:•A multi-tenant application architecture designed to enable our service offerings to scale securely, reliably and cost effectively.•Rapid deployment and lower total cost of ownership with multiple releases per year deployed automatically with new features and functionality.•Ease of integration and configuration with application programming interfaces that enable customers to integrate our solutions with existing third-party, custom and legacy apps, as well as write their own application services that integrate with our solutions.•Solutions designed to be intuitive and easy to use with minimal training.•Rapid development of apps without having to invest in hardware by providing infrastructure and development environments on demand.•Continuous innovation through our Ideas Exchange, which is a forum to provide feedback and suggest new features for future service releases.•Positive environmental impact with our multi-tenant cloud computing model that has a smaller environmental footprint than traditional hardware and software.Our Growth StrategyWe invest for future growth by focusing on the following key priorities:Cross selling and upselling. We see significant opportunity to deepen our relationships with our existing customers. As our customers realize the benefits of our service offerings, we aim to upgrade the customer experience with premium editions and additional subscriptions by targeting new functional areas and business units, with the goal of ultimately becoming our customers' trusted advisors, inspiring enterprise-wide digital transformation and accelerating strategic engagements through direct discussions with the highest levels of our customers' executive management.Extending existing service offerings. We offer multiple editions of our cloud service offerings at different price points to meet the needs of customers of different sizes and we have designed our solutions to accommodate new features and functionality. We intend to continue to expand all editions of our service offerings with new features, functions and increased security through our own development, acquisitions and partnerships. We have invested heavily in the AI capabilities of Einstein, which allows users of our products to deliver more predictive customer experiences, as well as innovations like Lightning and Trailhead that improve the entire platform.Reducing customer attrition. We strive to reduce attrition and secure renewals of existing customer subscriptions prior to the end of their contractual terms with us through, among other things, customer success and other related programs.Expanding and strengthening the partner ecosystem. We continue to work with and invest in strategic system integrators (“SIs”) and independent software vendors (“ISVs”) to accelerate our reach into new markets and industries, offer a variety of solutions natively and through the AppExchange, our enterprise cloud marketplace, and address the business requirements of both current and future customers.International expansion. We continue to increase our investment in our international go-to-market resources, operations and infrastructure to deliver the highest quality service to our customers around the world.Targeting vertical industries. To meet the needs of our customers in certain industries, we provide solutions specifically built for certain vertical industries, such as financial services, healthcare and government.Expanding into new horizontal markets. As part of our growth strategy, which is driven both organically and through acquisitions, we are delivering innovative solutions in new categories, including analytics, commerce, IoT and integration, and expect to continue this type of horizontal expansion in the future.Extending go-to-market capabilities. We believe that our offerings provide significant value for businesses of any size. We will continue to pursue businesses of all sizes in top industries and major regions globally, primarily through our direct sales force. We have steadily increased and plan to continue to increase the number of direct sales professionals we employ, and we intend to develop additional distribution channels for our solutions around the globe.5Table of ContentsPromoting strong customer adoption. We believe that we have the people, processes and proven innovation to help companies transform successfully. We have free, curated resources such as Trailhead to help companies of every size learn our systems, as well as advisory services, technical architects and business strategists to enable and accelerate digital transformation.Encouraging the development of third-party applications on our cloud computing platform. The Lightning Platform enables customers, ISVs and third-party developers to create and deliver cloud-based apps. It is a platform on which apps can be created, tested, published and run. In addition, these apps can be marketed and sold on the AppExchange or sold directly by software vendors. We believe our ecosystem of developers and software vendors will help address the business requirements of both current and future customers.In addition to the key elements of our growth strategy described above, from time to time, we evaluate opportunities to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services, technologies and intellectual property rights. These evaluations resulted in our acquisition of several companies in fiscal 2019, including MuleSoft, Inc. ("MuleSoft") and Datorama, Inc. ("Datorama") which expanded our integration and marketing capabilities.Technology, Development and OperationsWe deliver our Salesforce solutions as highly scalable, cloud computing application and platform services on a multi-tenant technology architecture. We also offer integration capabilities in the cloud, as well as on-premises, to provide our customers more options to integrate their data. Multi-tenancy is an architectural approach that allows us to operate a single application instance for multiple organizations, treating all customers as separate tenants who run in virtual isolation from each other. This approach allows us to spread the cost of delivering our services across our user base and scale our business faster than traditional software vendors while focusing our resources on building new functionality.We provide the majority of our services to our customers from infrastructure designed and operated by us but secured within third-party data center facilities located in the United States, United Kingdom, Germany, France, Japan and other countries. These third-party data center operators provide space, physical security, and continuous power and cooling. In combination with these third-party data center facilities, we also run our services on cloud computing platform partners who offer Infrastructure-as-a-Service, including servers, storage, databases and networking. The use of cloud computing platform partners provides us flexibility to service customers in new and emerging regions and those with in-country data privacy requirements, as well as to support acquired companies.Our technology and product efforts are focused on improving and enhancing the features, functionality, performance, availability and security of our existing service offerings, as well as developing new features, functionality and services and integrating businesses, services and technologies from acquisitions. Performance, functional depth, security and the usability of our solutions influence our technology decisions and product direction.CompetitionThe market for our service offerings is highly competitive, rapidly evolving and fragmented, and subject to changing technology and low barriers to entry, shifting customer needs and frequent introductions of new products and services.Our current competitors include:•Vendors of packaged business software, as well as companies offering enterprise apps delivered through on-premises offerings from enterprise software application vendors and cloud computing application service providers, either individually or with others;•Internally developed enterprise applications (by our potential customers’ IT departments);•Software companies that provide their product or service free of charge, and only charge a premium for advanced features and functionality;•Marketing vendors, which may be specialized in advertising, targeting, messaging, or campaign automation;•E-commerce solutions from established and emerging cloud-only vendors and established on-premises vendors;•Traditional platform development environment companies and cloud computing development platform companies who may develop toolsets and products that allow customers to build new apps that run on the customers’ current infrastructure or as hosted services;•IoT platforms from large companies that have existing relationships with hardware and software companies; and•AI solutions from new startups and established companies.We believe more traditional enterprise software application and platform vendors may become a greater competitive threat as they shift more of their focus to cloud computing.6Table of ContentsSources of RevenueFor revenue reporting purposes, we group all of our service offerings into four major categories: Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Salesforce Platform and Other, and Marketing and Commerce Cloud. Our subscription and support revenues are disaggregated into these four core offerings. For a more detailed discussion, see the “Revenue by Cloud Service Offering” discussion in Management’s Discussion and Analysis.We derive our revenues primarily from subscription revenues from our enterprise cloud computing services, software licenses and support fees for our services. We also derive revenues from related professional services via our Customer Success Group.For our subscription and support offerings, we recognize subscription and support revenue ratably over the contract term, beginning on the commencement date of each contract. For software license sales, which resulted from our May 2018 acquisition of MuleSoft, revenues are generally recognized upfront when the software is made available to the customer. We enter into professional services contracts that are on a time and materials, fixed fee or subscription basis. We recognize revenue over time as the services are rendered for time and materials contracts, on a proportional performance basis for fixed price contracts and ratably over the contract term for subscription professional services.Amounts that have been invoiced are recorded in accounts receivable and in either unearned revenue or revenue, depending on whether the revenue recognition criteria have been met. Unearned revenue primarily consists of billings or payments received in advance of revenue recognition from subscription services and is recognized as the revenue recognition criteria are met. Remaining performance obligations, representing future revenues that are under contract but have not yet been recognized, are not recorded in unearned revenue. We generally invoice customers annually. Typical payment terms provide that our customers pay us within 30 days of invoice.Unearned revenue and remaining performance obligation are influenced by several factors, including new business seasonality within the year, the specific timing, size and duration of large customer subscription agreements, the timing and compounding effects of customer renewals, varying billing cycles of subscription agreements, invoice timing, foreign currency fluctuations and new business linearity. Our fourth quarter has historically been our strongest quarter for new business and renewals, and our first quarter is generally our largest collections and operating cash flow quarter. For a more detailed discussion, see the “Seasonal Nature of Unearned Revenue, Accounts Receivable and Operating Cash Flow” discussion in Management’s Discussion and Analysis.Refer to our "Liquidity and Capital Resources" discussion in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference.CustomersWe sell to businesses of all sizes and in almost every industry worldwide. The number of paying subscriptions at each of our customers ranges from one to hundreds of thousands. None of our customers accounted for more than five percent of our revenues in fiscal 2019, 2018 or 2017.Customer Service and SupportWe offer professional services to help customers achieve business results faster with Salesforce solutions. Our architects and innovation program teams act as advisors to plan and execute digital transformations for our customers. We provide best-practices based support and adoption programs globally. In addition, we provide more advanced education, including instructor-led and online courses to certify our customers and partners on architecting, administering, deploying and developing our service offerings.Our global customer support group responds to both business and technical inquiries about the use of our products via the web, telephone, email, social networks and other channels. We provide standard customer support during regular business hours at no charge to customers who purchase any of our paying subscription editions. We also offer premier customer support that is either included in a premium offering or sold for an additional fee, which can include services such as priority access to technical resources, developer support, and system administration. In addition, we offer a mission critical support add-on that is designed to provide customers with responses for incidents from a dedicated team knowledgeable about the customer's specific enterprise architecture, and which offers instruction to optimize their usage of our products.Sales and MarketingWe sell our services primarily through our direct sales force, which is comprised of telephone sales personnel based in regional hubs, and field sales personnel based in territories close to their customers. Both our telephone sales and field sales personnel are supported by sales representatives, who are primarily responsible for generating qualified sales leads.To a lesser extent, we also have a network of partners who refer sales leads to us and who then assist in selling to these prospects. This network includes global consulting firms, systems integrators and other partners. In return, we typically pay 7Table of Contentsthese partners a fee based on the first-year subscription revenue generated by the customers whom they refer. We continue to invest in developing additional distribution channels for our subscription service.Our marketing strategy is to promote our brand and generate demand for our offerings. We use a variety of marketing programs across traditional and social channels to target our prospective and current customers, partners and developers. We focus our marketing activities on the cities and countries with the largest market opportunity.Our primary marketing activities include:•Multi-channel marketing campaigns that span email, social, web and more, which align to a broader customer journey;•Customer events of all sizes to create customer and prospect awareness, including proprietary events such as Dreamforce and World Tours, as well as participation in trade shows and industry events;•Press and industry analyst relations to garner third-party validation and generate positive coverage for our company, service offerings and value proposition;•Content marketing and engagement on all of the major social channels;•Search engine marketing and advertising to drive traffic to our web properties;•Partner co-marketing activities with global and regional implementation partners;•Web site development to engage and educate prospects and generate interest through product information and demonstrations, case studies, white papers and marketing collateral;•Customer testimonials;•Cultivating a community of Trailblazers who embrace our Company values and evangelize our service offerings. A Trailblazer can be anyone who leverages new technologies to transform their companies, careers and communities;•Tools that enable our sales organization to more effectively convert leads into customers;•Event sponsorships; and•Primary real estate signage.We organize our sales and marketing programs by geographic regions, such as the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific, which includes Japan.Strategic InvestmentsWe invest in early- to late-stage technology and professional cloud service companies across the globe to support our business initiatives, which include, among other things, extending the capabilities of our platform and service offerings, increasing the ecosystem of enterprise cloud companies and partners, accelerating the adoption of cloud technologies and creating the next-generation of AI, mobile applications and connected products. Our minority investments in over 240 companies as of January 31, 2019 also help us stay connected with the rapid pace of innovation that is currently occurring within the technology industry. In some cases, we have acquired companies in which we have previously invested. Due to the inherent risk in investing, our individual investments are subject to a risk of partial or total loss of investment capital. While historically our investment portfolio has had a positive impact on our financial results, that may not be true for future periods, particularly in periods of significant market fluctuations that affect the market price of publicly traded companies within our strategic investment portfolio.Intellectual PropertyWe rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and patents, as well as contractual provisions, to protect our proprietary technology and our brands. We also enter into confidentiality and proprietary rights agreements with our employees, consultants and other third parties and control access to software, services, documentation and other proprietary information. We believe the duration of our patents is adequate relative to the expected lives of our service offerings. We also purchase or license technology that we incorporate into our products or services. At times, we make select intellectual property broadly available at no or low cost to achieve a strategic objective, such as promoting industry standards, advancing interoperability, fostering open source software or attracting and enabling our external development community. While it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of our products and business methods, we believe, based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. We believe our continuing research and product development are not materially dependent on any single license or other agreement with a third party relating to the development of our products.EmployeesAs of January 31, 2019, we had more than 35,000 employees. None of our employees in the United States are represented by a labor union. However, for certain foreign subsidiaries, works councils represent our employees.8Table of ContentsAvailable InformationOur Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), and all amendments to these filings, can be obtained free of charge from our website at http://investor.salesforce.com/about-us/investor/financials/ or by contacting our Investor Relations department at our office address listed above following our filing of any of these reports with the SEC. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. The contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing. Further, the Company’s references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.9Table of Contents