 Good morning everyone. This is Jim chiquita I am the CTO and co-founder of vit ovation were a video distribution contribution company we specialize in wireless bonded cellular IPTV fiber optics amongst other things Today we're going to talk about The live PD TV show Hopefully most of you have heard of it. It's the number one show on cable for the better part of the last two years live PD it's like the shell cops, except it's live and Today we're going to talk about some of the challenges and hurdles that needed to be overcome to make this show possible and That's a perfect segue into the title of today's webinar how ly PD became the top OTT video on-demand DVR show In 2018 the show has won all kinds of statistical Awards Believe it or not It's the number one live cable TV show But it's a it's also the number one DVR'd show so I think people if they don't catch it live they want they don't want to miss it So they make sure they DVR it and then it broke all the records in in video on demand So if you if you did in DVR it and you didn't watch it live They would go into the ane library and and and watch the show that way And then over the top is it's the number one stream to show o TT refers to streaming So maybe I'll start with a with a question, you know, the the a lot of what we do here at video vation centers around live television live Production whether that be news or sports or like this live reality show live PD and Just curious. You know, how many of you guys and and men and women out there how many of you are? are doing A live production right now some sort of live broadcast you know whether the B news or or sports or even doing a lot of high school sports a second third tier College sports university sports high school sports, so there there's more and more demand More and more demand for live content and that that fits right into our wheelhouse very nicely Let me see here. I think I can show you guys the results No, maybe not I don't well just tell it to you so so basically seventy-one percent of you said that you you do some sort of a live production and 27 percent of you do not Maybe when we're done Maybe we can help you Those 25 percent of you guys that are not doing something live we can help you with that if you have aspirations for that so Let me let me I think I need to close that. Yeah You should be able to see my screen now. So so what was the challenge so we were approached by the technical director at Big fish entertainment big fish entertainment is the production company that produces the live PD show for A&E and It was quite a daunting challenge Basically in the beginning they wanted to do six or seven different cities Simultaneously net now. They'll do like seven or eight Simultaneous and in each of those cities there's four cameras in each police vehicle in close proximity So those four cameras need to be in perfect gen lock and have perfect audio lip sync otherwise the show wouldn't Be watchable, you know be like you're under arrest you're under arrest as they cut two different shots You know a tight shot a wide shot Then it gets even more complicated in in some cities They have more than one police vehicle in a lot of cities now They have to Polly vehicles and there's a tendency where the two vehicles with live PD cameras If it's a real juicy arrest if there's something Juicy happening or the cop needs backup they'll send the second car and now you have eight cameras all in close proximity, so in a live show, you know if this was a Recorded show a produced show, you know, you could fix a lot of things in post-production You could fix lip-sync problems. You could kill you. Of course, you would synchronize all your video clips together all your different Different shots. So yeah, there's a lot you could do in post but in a live show, there's no time for that. So so The producers of the show big fish needed a system that could do rock-solid genlock provide rock-solid lip sync over cellular Which is not so easy to do, you know, you know inside of our networks You know the old-school approach is distributing black bursts now with the sympathy 2110 Synchronization is built into the fabric but simply 2110 can't go over an unmanaged network Can't go over a cellular network. It's just networks are not built for that. So A big fish and Annie really had nowhere to go and when they came to video vation We had a technology from a company by the name of Abby West Where they had done a similar multi camera live show in Europe And we did some initial testing and we were off to the races that the show the technology made the show possible So, let me just dive into it a little bit so you know some of you might be familiar with the show, so, you know, this might be a little redundant but machine the show if you haven't there's basically Two photographers that sit in the back seat to photog they they use a small camera from Canon it's really nice cameras, you know broadcast quality, but small, it does have infrared cave because some of these Situations are at night in the dark but inside the police vehicle they have a medium shot of the driver a POV shot basically below the rearview mirror and then they have a shot going out the front - These cameras are good. They're marshal cameras, but sometimes they want a camera with the better lens better optics So sometimes the photog sits in the front seat instead of sitting in the back. There's two of them in the back So maybe one will ride shotgun There's some pictures I'll show you where where he'll sit up front just because he's got a better lens better better better optics So they to get a variety of shots on the show Then then basically so to photog sit in the back seat and Bonded Cellular Abbey. West was one of the first to put bonded Cellular on the camera so you can see here If you soak if you so choose The unit would go between the the battery plate on the camera and the Anton Bauer of v-loc battery would sandwich between the batteries and they were the first to do this six years ago with a With a bonded product, you know sandwiching between the cameras popular Has been popular if you know for the last 28 years or more with fiber optics or with You know more microwave type Wireless. So Abbey West six years ago said, hey that let's do it that way That's a better way to package it. The other alternative is to wear it in a backpack. Well live PD Because they're getting in and out of a vehicle. They didn't want a backpack on their back You know, they'd get hung up on the door jamb getting in and out of the car or they couldn't sit very well So these guys are dressed for battle. They're wearing a bulletproof vest so there's a little pocket on the belly of the bulletproof vest where they Tuck the the bonded cellular ABI West Pro 180 and so they can sit so it's on their belly Just works out better for them that way and then in the rear of the vehicle or in the trunk are two of the fixed a B Wes units there that those are the ones that Are the two Marsh the two Marshall cameras are feeding the two units in the trunk So you can see here. They put a big battery that they just put a big UPS battery that will run for a couple hours in the trunk so they don't have to steal power from the From the police vehicle, you know, the police vehicles have all kinds of radios They don't want to put an unnecessary load on the alternator So just put a big big honking battery in the trunk to power all that all the transmission gear Also, I should say inside the cab of the police vehicle are some ambient mics and those feed into the analog inputs on the bond that cellular units in the trunk and then of course the photog have microphones on there cameras that feed into the Abbey West that way So here you can see the the units they're hidden in a little little little case in the trunk You can see here these up atop here are probably like wireless lav receivers lavalier mics that the police officers wear So that's coming into the unit as well as the ambient mics inside the The police vehicle cab, and they have a little audio mixer and then the the audio inputs are going to the analog audio inputs on the on the Abbey West Then you see in this photo. There's a little RF connector here are two connectors that plug into the a/v West for external antennas a Common question I get all the time is like hey won't the unit work better if I use the external antennas Why don't I just use them all the time? You really don't need them that the Abbey West unit inside the the top and bottom of the housing right here top and bottom are our Four cellular antennas four on the top four on the bottom on top is also Wi-Fi and GPS These work great as long as you're outside of a vehicle or outdoors. The only time you really need the The quad antennas is if you're in a vehicle Believe it or not the of course the body of the vehicle Shields, the the cellular signal, you know, there's two hobby West units in the trunk of this police vehicle It's like a Faraday cage. You're not going to get much signal out of there. It's not going to work very well. So It's like a ribbon cable that comes off these Antenna, so every Wes makes two types of antennas the ones used by live PD they're passive so it just outboards the Internal antennas to external antennas and they're high gain Passive antennas and that there's a very strong magnet they mount to the the roof here of the police vehicle So here they just put them in the trunk put them on top of the trunk of the vehicle And it's a flat ribbon cable. That just goes through the Through through the molding on the on the on the trunk So it doesn't impede the trunk trunk closes fine. And you know, it's still waterproof, etc somebody made a joke once on our websites like hey, we're the China were the cops eating Chinese food that you know, They thought these look like Chinese food Takeout boxes I thought that was pretty funny but these are actually the antennas and why are there four of them? They're quad antennas and the Abby West unit has eight eight cellular modems. So 4 times 2 makes 8 so you need 2 of them per unit. So there's two transmitters in your hence the 8 Quad antennas have us does make an active antenna Where there's four modems in there and and that can be used with their HEV C rack-mounted encoder As an option the active version of the quad So here's some cool shots You can see here. You know, this guy looks like he's not wearing his bulletproof vest but You can see here. Some of them have vests on Here's a photog you see Here's the Marshall camera pointing out the front Somewhere in here is a camera pointing at the driver, but the photog Decided to sit up front maybe to get a you know better shot You know, he's got a, you know bigger piece of glass on that camera compared to the Marshalls The Marshalls do a good job, but you know You could understand why maybe they would want an alternate shot with the with the bigger camera and you can see here You know some here on his belly. He's got the battery and the AVI West transmitter on his belly. He's got his bulletproof vest There's um, you can see here like, you know, here's two fotox and it looks like two to Either line producers or technicians with the photog Zout in the field the tech. He'll be helping them swap out their batteries the line producers in communication with Master Control once in a while, Dan Abrams will will throw to one of the line producers like if there's something Going on and it's not clear what's happening. They'll go Hey Becky, you know what's happening there and tell us what's what's the situation? So once in a while, the line producer will will speak but all more off-camera. They don't get on camera So they're able to do that with it with the with the Abby West Then this is the the master control side. So in the in the A&E master control in, New York there's Nine AV West receivers and AB us calls their receiver a stream hub It's not only a receiver, you know, it's a receiver. It's a decoder It's also a transcoder and an end coder. So so it is very common for a lot of our customers to use The Abby West stream hub receiver to to output IP To to social media to other affiliates The stream hubs can can speak to each other through the public internet very reliably, you know they have I'll get into it more but I'll give you a little foreshadowing to the AVI Wes has what they call safe streams and it's a extremely robust proprietary patented transport mechanism for for video and It's what it's how they communicate it's how the the pro transmitters communicate to the stream of receivers It's how the stream hub receivers all communicate with each other It's all it's all very rock-solid So there's nine of these receivers and and and big-fish was very clever in that. They they have three different internet service providers so they have three cities on On one service provider so that you got the nine Cities so they have a three-way diversity. So if the Internet should go out with one of these service providers, they'd only lose Three cities not everything so it's very clever that they have Redundancy that way and the a/v West product facilitated that You know So what do they do with these live videos that are coming in so they first dump it into an instant replay system you know an EVs or something similar to that and They have line producers watching the live feeds as they come in and and they make an initial pass at metadata, you know certain keywords, you know, is there a gun or other drugs or and and you know minor minor things are in green some things of interest might be yellow and then something really juicy is in red and then so that so there's a Operators at I think I have a picture of it actually, let me get to the next slide here We go. Yeah, so you see here, the these are four different cities coming in or four different police vehicles So you see the four cameras? These are different police vehicles and then these four operators here are are keying and metadata from what they see On the screen above and then of course they're on the comms Then there's a line producer further downstream Who is who was also watching and if he sees a lot of red coming in on a camera feed wow, that's great There's something there's something juicy happening there You know, they'll alert the director say, okay we got shots fired in Tulsa You know, they'll alert the director and the director, you know, the director will say, you know Hey when we're done with the current segment, you know load that up. So so they put it in front of the director They plate they play the they'll put it together in a package, you know, all the cameras associated with that so now it's a few minutes old so so you know, it's it's just Part of the process, you know, we're not dumping everything to air There's there's as many as forty one camera. So it's a few minutes before it actually gets gets a QC they they put the metadata then they'll tell the director boom and then the director the Director will cue them. Okay, when we're done with this clip put the package up and out Then I will go to Tulsa or or they'll go when the the current clip has gotten done We'll go to commercial let Abrams the the talent know when we come back from commercial. We're going to go to Tulsa so Everyone's all on the coms So while they're in commercial, they'll tell Abrams Okay, you know we have shots fired in Tulsa Then they put the package up and then the director here Johnny Gonzales is sitting in the middle I think this is a producer next to him and then here's the technical director So they put the package up when they come out of commercial say folks shots fired in Tulsa. And then Then the director goes okay, take camera one take camera two, and he he he takes cameras like it's live now But they're playing it back to him out of the instant replay system So here's some other stations you can see the studio this is a quality control station where they have All the cameras up you know, it's a live show and and you know, they want to having at least two Photons with each police vehicle, you know They they try to time it where they don't have to do a battery change at the same time so if something juicy happens, unfortunately, they have to take system down for a minute or so to swap batteries They don't they don't have the photons don't have two batteries on there and where they could do a failover But that seems to work, you know If if somebody needs to change batteries and the other photog keeps going and they managed to stay on the air that way Here's a quote from Dances REO the the founder and president of big fish entertainment You know, he was very pleased with the the service and support that we've given them the show The show was in jeopardy. Basically, they approached just a month before the the show was going to air and You know, hey we need a solution and you know, I talked to their technical Consultant I said, you know, theoretically I think we have what you need We do do genlock. We you know, but We sent them a demo quickly and they saw that the a/v Wes system worked and you know We did a few dress rehearsals and the show and you know, pretty much even though even the premiere, you know There was a learning curve learning the equipment, you know, big fish had to learn the workflow of this crazy type of a show But now it's it's it's been the better part of two years that a number one show It's been it's been it's been a lot of fun Let me ask you guys another question. So so this particular show I'm going to get more into some of the technical stuff I'm also going to talk about a project we did With a V West with Turner Sports for the writers Club that's coming up next So we're going to kind of shift away from bonded cellulose. So this show uses bonded cellular and I'm just curious how many of you guys Are currently using bonded cellular right now. Is that something you guys are using or? Something you plan to use in the future You know, just give me yes or no, even if you're going to use in the future, you know, just say no for now Yeah, so so it looks it looks pretty good I don't know if you guys see the results, but I'll just read them to you So 29% of you are already using some form of bonded and though this it's changing now. It's moving on me 37% are using it. Yes and 63% are not using bonded If you folks that are not using bonded and you have aspirations to do live We'd love to help you. We'd love to help all of you with with any of your live production needs so Here okay, I got a and wait I got to end the The poll. Oh, hold on a second, okay so, you know, so what was the the result of In summary this this live PD show You know on on a given the shows typically on Friday and Saturday nights It's very draining on the photog they Mahoma their families. They just stay on site So so I think they do like an 8 week a six to eight week stint and then they take a couple of week hiatus so it's it's a very demanding show on the field personnel and So on a given night, there'd be upwards of 36 and sometimes even close to 41 live camera feeds and Everything's in perfect lip-sync You know It really is irrelevant whether they're shooting in New York or somewhere on the East Coast or whether they're shooting in, Arizona or California The show is You know that the gear can be 30 to 33 thousand miles apart We've done some projects for some of the European broadcasters that use a V West where they'll they'll do a multi camera shoot of the red carpet for the Oscars or the you know, the Academy Awards and Send it live back to Sweden or Norway or wherever You know with as little with less than a second latency But the real challenge was maintaining that multi camera synchronization. It's what some folks to refer to as Remi remote integration or at home production Whatever, you might call that that type of production that you know where you don't have the production truck in the field Where you where you bring everything home? We're seeing more and more of that. You know, I Talked the guys at any P or game Creek and you know, some of our marketing says, you know The truck is going to go away. I don't think that trucks are going to go away completely I think the trucks will always be needed to some extent You know eventually we'll probably be doing camera shading across the network, I think there's been some applications more of on a managed Network controlling iris of cameras, but You're still going to need faux togs. They're on site. You're going to need some equipment on site. I I Suspect you know any P your game creeks and your other players out there That you know in the future they may actually have more trucks, but there'll be smaller trucks and they'll be doing a wider diversity of Shows and live productions then You know only your Monday Night Football or your hockey or baseball games those Those big-ticket events that we're going to see some some smaller stuff So I don't want to turn this into a commercial but you know, here's here's some slides you kind of go through this quickly This is the unit We actually have you as this big big big fish is looking to upgrade they they're using the a/v West older unit The new unit will have a GBC But all of a vos units have you know eight internal modems? high gain antennas to LAN connections Wi-Fi Anton bauer v-loc. They were one of the first to go on camera. Here's a TV to denmark crew in Times Square Using the a/v West You know The talent is untethered that the IFB an intercom is going through the unit Have us is very strong on the on the intercom elements of the system Us us operators are loving the a/v West as well then the the stream hub, you know, you can have up to 16 Receive sixteen transmitter 16 pros of received by a single receiver you know in news, it's more of a round-robin, you know, you might have Fifty units out there, but they don't all go alive at the same time. So so it's more of Many inputs and a few outputs when it's live Typically we have four SDI outputs. So in the case of live PD, they only have four inputs and four outputs Now if if they had an IP master control We could do actually sixteen input sixteen Pros or sixteen receives in 1ru, which is very powerful and then the box also outputs IP rtmp RTSP HLS and a generic transport stream as well as the proprietary, Abby West's safe stream so you might be using some of the other bonded cellular gear out there where you make like a grid and you hook all your affiliates together This is this is the technology you would use from having Wes to do the same thing You know and that kind of segues into into the riders Cup Again, you know have us has a cloud manager. They have a multi viewer function So if you want a quality control, you know, like live PD they have these 41 Feeds coming in You could designate one of the SDI or or IP outputs as a multi viewer output and put that up on a big display for For quality control or for the transmission engineer to keep an eye on everything. So there's some some cool new features in the a/v West system that can help with Your live transmission and your live workload. So now now we'll segue into a Project we did with Turner Sports for the writers Cup Bob Baker and Tom Sahara broad bid ovation into into Turner and Chris Brown was heavily involved in the project Chris. Chris. Brown has been kind of the face of this particular project Particularly with the sports video group. I think sports video group had a function this week in Arizona, Chris Brown's there speaking about what Turner Sports did with the Ryder Cup, and of course he spoke at sports video group in December Along with some other panel members, you know some of his sports colleagues from from from other Other networks. So what was the challenge for for? for Turner The big challenge was you know, they weren't the primary rights holders. So their revenue stream or their their Advertising revenue stream was not as big as the primary rights holder. So they had a more finite budget for their production You know, they still want a good quality. They still wanted to do a good show So They were already looking at some of the a/v West stuff and the other they were demoing some of our stuff and like hey guys you know, here's a quiz a crazy question, you know you You know we talked about a single feed here single for you there, you know, can you do? 16 feeds, you know 16. I so camera feeds from Paris to Atlanta through the public Internet Can you do four up return program fees from Atlanta back to Paris? And you know, it's a live show. We don't want to be putting Frame sinks and and and fixing lip-sync problems, you know when it gets to Atlanta, you know We we want to dump it live that live to air live to social media, so again, this is this is more of the rack-mounted platform of Abbey West Called the Aichi 4,000 these are these are the units here. They're half Iraq wide There's a rack mount to put two of them in Iraq. It's relatively portable, you know in the case of Turner they they put in their flyaway kit now this device has to land connections so you could have two internet service providers to telecom providers it also has two USB ports which which can optionally Connect to what AB us calls the quad cell link and the quad cell link. Is that active external antenna? I alluded to so Tom Sahara and the guys at Turner like, you know, we like that idea like if we're in a basketball game You know, we'll show up a couple hours before the game. We'll order a Metro ethernet circuit for our feed but then you know this an afternoon game. We arrive Saturday morning The feeds not turned up we call the service providers as oh, we'll send somebody out on Tuesday Excuse me, the games in a few hours the Tuesday's not going to work for us So they like the idea that they could connect bonded cellular To an encoder as a backup in case the the telco circuit is out now in this case The show was in Paris. They chose not to do a bonded cellular as a backup They chose to only use a single internet service provider I probably would have slept better the first night of the show the first day of the show If they had two connections the backup connections, you know if the ISP went down Everything was going through that But everything worked flawlessly they Barely dropped a single packet the Ryder Cup I think was a four day shoot so they had these 16 feeds coming out of out of Paris and they had Not not only the tournament, but they had some you know You know, they follow the talent around you know, I'm sure they pushed some content through the circuit that wasn't live, you know They went out around the campus and followed some of the talent around it interviews But there was a live connection for the better part of four days sixteen feeds coming in four feeds coming out and it just worked rock-solid as if they had a fiber connection it was that good and If you guys know Tom Sahara or Bob Baker Or some of the guys over at Turner Sports or Chris Brown they can attest to that And then, you know common question we get is like well, what's the magic well, how does that how does it work? So so this is an HEV C encoder. So, you know, it helps that Doesn't require as much bandwidth because it's it's HEV C is more more efficient h.265 The Also, it uses a be west what they call safe streams so what does that mean it has A a B West's role. It has just rolled out their third version safe streams three It has a dynamic forward error correction. So, what does that mean? Foreigner correction is nothing new for Communication systems whether it be satellite or microwave or Eng or encoders or IP? You know forward error correction is a certain amount of overhead that's added to the stream to make it resilient to to Packet drops or packet loss without getting into the math. I have a whole nother PowerPoint Presentation I've done years ago. It's on our website on you know, more of the nuts and bolts of how FEC works But basically if you add up twenty percent overhead, let's say you set the FEC at twenty percent You're adding a twenty percent overhead to the payload To offer redundancy and then statistically if you add twenty percent overhead You can sustain twenty percent loss and automatically recover any lost packets Well that twenty percent is overhead So say you have a twenty meg and and twenty percent is going to FEC You know now that twenty Meg pipe is actually 16 Meg's of usable video bandwidth So what Abby West does is very clever there was I think they're the only ones doing this They only turn the forward error correction honor that's needed if if the link is passing all the packets Everything is going going smoothly. You know, maybe there's a little bit of FEC turn on just the minimal amount if all of a sudden things start going south the circuit is is Taking a hit. It drops a lot of packets in The short term they are Q will kick in automatic reira quest so because the FEC is turned down Maybe we miss a few the initial packet drop. So a our Q the the encode the decoder Runs the dance runt controls to show the the decoder will will tell the encode of whoa I just lost packets 101 through you know 121 can you resend those and it sends those through then in parallel? It says maybe I better bring the FEC up a little bit because things are getting funky to try to stop this Barrage of packet loss and this is how Ryder was able through through an unmanaged connection through a public internet connection Essentially dropped no packets. I mean, I think they dropped a very small number of packets for the whole of that And then if a packet should not be recoverable. You know, the whole system doesn't fall apart It it conceals it, you know, if a packet in the middle of green grass is suddenly dropped You're not going to see a bright spot It's gonna it's going to smooth it out and assume the missing packet is green so so that the unit has Well what have us calls a concealment mode? then another important thing is I mean all bonded Cellular does this but when I think It's a little bit more of a foreign concept when it comes to fixed encoders you know you take You know Fujitsu or Ericsson or attempt something like that for the most part most high-end encoders a constant bitrate bonded cellular guys We've all had to learn how to do adaptive bit rate because the cellular pipe was so up and down and unpredictable Constant beverages didn't work, you know the the you know, okay that we have a 10 megabit price Let's try to send 5 megabits open then it dips down the 3 Momentarily you'd lose the feed of the video would freeze. So so with bonded it's constantly going up and down as the cellular bandwidth changes so so ABI Wes has a lot of expertise in in a variable bitrate So Turner when they got on site to do the Ryder Cup, they put the AVI wes units into constant bitrate mode They purchased a Gigabit Ethernet pipe and said we have no problem. We're going to run these 16 feeds at 20 20 20 megabits each everything is to be fine and in constant bitrate it started dropping packets Whoa, what's going on is something wrong with the Abbey West units? It ended up that their their Gigabit Ethernet pipe now They might have had a service level agreement from the venue in Paris to to the knock of the service provider but I don't think they had a service level agreement of one gigabit per second from Paris all the way to Atlanta and We learned we figured this out during dress rehearsal. So, you know, the crew was out there 48 hours before the event so so we said, you know look guys, we really recommend you run the a/v West gear at variable bitrate and again, well our Fujitsu as we normally run would run them at CB our concert very is it well This is a different product and and you we don't know where where the the bandwidth ceiling is so so we switched the units over the VBR and Lo and behold we could only it seemed it'll settle out at 13 megabits per second So the available bandwidth was was far less than the Gigabit Ethernet that they thought they had So that's that's the beauty of variable bitrate. Here's a common question I get Customer will tell me I have a decent encode or a constant bitrate encoder what pick a brand any brand and then I have this cradle point router with Four cellular modems on it and it does some load balancing Or something like a cradle point then I then I have I'm pointing that to a decoder and a master control When the ballpark is empty it works but then when the ballpark is full it doesn't work the problem is is that The decoder it's not a closed loop with a V West. It's a closed loop the decoder is actually controlling the dance the decoder is Checking or looking at the quality of each of the eight cellular modem paths The ave us units can have up to twelve paths to LAN to Wi-Fi eight cellular It looks at all twelve of those paths If if mo if circuit number one starts dropping packets it tells the encode or the transmitter to stop sending packets down that that path then if That path the loss of that path affects the throughput it tells the encoder to lower its bitrate So that's why in the scenario. I mentioned earlier where you have a, you know Moulton benders encoder We don't have control over the bitrate No one's analyzing the quality of the cellular path or though or the network. That's why you need a closed system That's why you can't build your own your own Bonded cellular or your own bonded IP. You know it Cellular's a piece of it or bonded IP to be more general And then the simple answer to is that you know, we get asked all the time Why does the a/v West unit seem to work better than a lot of the other guys out there? We think it comes down to two better antennas Better modems and then the algorithm is is the big thing. I think that's the big piece How Abby West controls the transport stream so I'm going to get into that in a couple slides But I have a bad habit of jumping ahead like three slides ahead. So give you a little foreshadowing So so they had sixteen they had four He4 thousands in paris to give you sixteen feeds and then they had one h e 4,000 in atlanta feeding back Back to paris and then with each a cheek is a companion stream hub. So a1 are you Appliance gives you the four outputs and a half rack a1. Are you half rack? appliance gives you the four HD signals or or one 4k Turner could have done this show in 4k if they wanted but they did they did it in HD and What what Turner has told us what some of the other? Major networks, you know, there's there's a network in New York that has an encoder lab Like I'm not at liberty to mention names, but it's a three-letter network They there's an individual there who's really known for picking apart encoders He says that this is the best HEV C encoder. He's seen and it's a hardware It's a chip based ASIC based encoder And it's the best anyone has seen, you know Turner, you know Everyone's different like, you know If you're at ESPN and they put an encoder, they like to look at the crawl does the crawl at the bottom stutter? You know, if you're dropping a frame that the the crawl will stutter That's a good test of an encoder or some sports venue customers like to a basketball moving over a sea of faces You know, there's everything get blurred out We're Turner, you know quick zooming or quick panning on grass, you know, they're like hey when we do quick pan quick quick zooms We can still see the blades of grass this this Ave us box is really good So then, you know again similar to the live PD show, you know We were able to maintain gen lock and lip sync another big caveat was Because it was a European production show they shot the show and fifty Hertz frame rate and the Abby West box has the ability to do to do a standard conversion inside the box so so I believe they state they They set the output at the 1080i or 720p fifty nine nine four and the show was shot or the video came into the system at 50 so they didn't need you know 16 expensive standards converters on the output of the Abby West I always tease my have us counterparts that I go you guys are too modest man. You got a lot of really sophisticated Cost-saving features in your product and you don't brag about it enough, but I guess that's my job my job is to brag about how good the Abby West technology is so so I did a presentation at the sympathy the annual Cynthia conference in Florida Joe Adalia had me come in and speak on precision timing protocol and a little bit about Cynthia 21:10. I also did speak about the live PD and Ryder Cup And you know, how does Abby West maintain all this? Lip sync and genlock and they use a form of precision timing protocol You know the the benefit that Abby West is a closed system They really don't need to meet any kind of an industry standard But on their IP outputs they do they do have generic transport stream out. They also have outputs for SRT they're part of the SRT Alliance the the a chief or thousands do will have Some point in the near future. There's an SFP Fiber-optic port on the back of these a chief or thousands to take in cynthy 2110 And then transport that and then on the receive side give back 270 2110 So a V West is forward-looking in a lot of their technology. Here's some Beauty shots of the event. So Here's the control room in Atlanta You know, here's the Ryder Cup I think we sent ads right the Turner the the rack mount brackets for the a chief or thousands but you can see here that looks like they just put them on a shelf and there's like a Bungee cord kind of holding them down, but these could be rack mounted a two of them side-by-side So here's here's three of them. Just just sitting here on the shelf These are the boxes that got the the video back to Atlanta Then I've known Tom Sahara for years any of you I'm sure You guys that know Tom? he's Probably one of the smartest guys I know but he's just so humble and soft-spoken and you know, he's just just just a Pleasure of a guy to work with everyone at Turner. I mean, you know, my dad started multiline you know some 40 years ago and when I was still involved with multi night Turner was always one of our Best customers, you know after NBC I think And Turner were the the second biggest customer that that helped launch multi dine you know back in the days when multi-line made test equipment and It's a pleasure working with Tom Sahara and and the Turner team We we briefly did a show called border live A competing network was trying to kind of I don't know Do a similar show to live PD. Maybe I don't want to say the word copy, but I I think It could have been a good show I think the producers the the network didn't realize you know, hey look guys It's going to take a dozen or so shows to see if that we really have a show But just I just have this slide here that you know, here's another testament that the technology worked if anything it was even a more hostile environment than live PD, we we were at that we were on border towns to Mexico and The cellular is not that great near the border The units were actually grabbing towers in Mexico to help transport the signal so our units can roam internationally, so For this show we allowed the units to to grab us towers or Mexican towers or a combination of both together to get a good signal so Let me get into the into some of the technology so I have a have a habit of going on pretty long with these We wanted to keep this under an hour. I see we got about ten minutes left. So I'll get through some of this. So here's just a quick shot of the Ecosystem so you can see here. You know, you have your your captured devices? Your encoders your transmitters and it could be the pro, you know either mounted on the camera in the backpack There's rackmount versions of the pro that are a full rack The H II is a newer platform. That's what Turner used This is this does four channels of HD or one channel of 4k the air is a really nice. The air is a very economical way To get your hands on what people are saying is the best HEV C encoder they've seen so while the Aichi 4000 has It's a four channel device some customers like I don't need four channels. That's overkill So you just need one this air is really nice. It's portable a Photon can wear it on is belt There's a verb there's there's an h.264 version and a HEV C 265 version You can get them without any modems or with to internal modems and then you can add to external modems via USB You know the more consumer type modems you can add that to it So that's a nice way to get to get your get the HEV C Quality high quality encoder and economically and then, you know, they're the cell phone apps We work on Macs iOS devices Android devices and and Mac OS and then other IP sources, you know, if if you The a/v West stream of connect as a generic IRD. So if you have You know other encoders and Eric Center and at em out there That the a/v West will will receive a transport stream from from other devices. And then here's a overview of the networks, you know, 3G 4G 5g Wi-Fi satellite me Satellite, you know, we it's not an ugly word. I don't think satellite is going going away anytime soon We have customers that will bond the cellular with satellite where the bonded maybe is back up to the satellite and it just seamlessly will Will bond the two or failover two to one or the other or vice versa? Cellular is that primary and the more expensive satellite is the backup? began, LAN you hook any kind of an IP an internet connection to the any of these devices and If it finds the public Internet, it will use it'll sniff out that bandwidth and use it You know then for distribution, you know, we can you can hit one stream hub or an infant number of stream of they can all be hooked together in a in a grid in an interlocking grid IP outputs SDI and HDMI inputs and outputs Then now we can get into some of the the meat and potatoes. So so here's the the more technical stuff and I'll try to Keep track of time here. So safe streams 3 I mention that it's a V West 3rd generation of this a very robust transport protocol So, what does it support it supports h.265 HEV C or 264 AVC codecs it's a It's a hybrid system. I kind of alluded to this before so it dynamically adjusts the the 2 D forward error correction So so it turns it on it turns it up and down when it's needed and and then that works in hand in hand with the The retransmission or the AR queue or the ACK You know, there's so many different in acronyms for this but you guys get the idea the automatic re-request of packets I lost the packet. Please resend the packet you know, then the system manages the priorities so You know in the grand scheme of things, you know, what packets are more important than others You know control packets obviously are important AR queue or ack packets are important so I have a diagram that shows kind of the priority of that so managing the link setting that priorities of the Transmission all that is that's the magic, you know, I think that's the special sauce That really makes a V West different this this very sophisticated Elaborate dance that's done to to control the transport to make the transport bulletproof You know, then IP data bridges and router modes, you know a common thing is uh, you know Maybe I want to use an extra a be West Pro as a hotspot and we do that all the time with our customers You know and and and we're agnostic, you know We we have we typically do eight cellular modems across that's what we recommend A V Wes was the first to do eight modems some some of the other players have copied them We're firm believers of having to Verizon to AT&T to t-mobile to Sprint A common question we get is you know, why you put sprinting there Sprint's not that good and I apologize for any as sprint users or Employees You know just statistically Minoo people say, you know sprint this is not needed we speak contrarian to that, you know We see On our monthly data usage our unit tries to flatten out the usage for diversity. So I'll give you an example let's say Verizon has 20 Meg's available on a single modem We don't like the idea putting the whole payload on that one connection because as we all know in any kind of IP Communications you're only leased that connection the tower could decide. Hey Subscriber your hog in the tower or you're hogging in that connection. We have some suggestions some congestion They're going to dump you now if you had your whole payload going through that 20 man connection it'd be very hard for the system to recover from that seamlessly there would there there would be a hit if not You know a good 60 second hit so a B Wes takes the approach of smoothing it out we you know, we would rather see a Meg or of several minx spread across all eight modems. So just the way the Abby West product works that there may be more bandwidth available statistically, but we see pretty Even usage across Verizon AT&T and t-mobile and what what tells us that at least? The networks are equally available Really doesn't speak to like, you know, maybe Verizon had more bandwidth, but we prefer to diversify but but I look at as availability and then So that average is you know 27% 29% somewhere in that in that range and then The leftover sprint handles about 14 to 16 percent. So we've seen You know in really challenging environments here's another question we get I Don't believe it that the Abby West will work at MetLife Stadium with 80,000 fans in the stands during a football game And say well demo it and and the customer will say, you know, I had your competitors rig out here last Sunday Ours just works. We get five Meg's with 80,000 fans. So what's happening there? You know, maybe the better antennas. Maybe the better modems. Maybe the better algorithm I think a piece of it too though is the majority of the fans are probably on AT&T t-mobile and and and Verizon and There's less competition to get onto Sprint. So in some of those bad Areas, you know, I think Sprint saves the day so see. Yeah, so we do need sprint Sprint we feel is is an important piece of the puzzle So, you know I'll go through this pretty quick. So so, you know, this is more about the safe streams, you know, it's a full duplex Uplink and video return a.b west the the new Abby West products all have Video inputs and video outputs if you buy a unit today there's a video output today the firmware just gives you a loop through, you know, it's like a confidence out, but there will be Firmware updates later this year that will give full quality video return You know particularly with the Remmy production Especially some of these smaller games where they don't have an in-house crew shooting the game so there'll be a single crew and they're also doing replay and They're also doing the in-house feed. So if we move the truck from the venue back to master control We have to send the high quality feedback to the venue to put something up on the big screen To have play highlights or replay that sort of thing So this return path, you know Everyone's been asking for this but I think as we move forward and we get into more of this Remmy or at home production This return path is going to become even more more important Let's see here, so I mentioned this so, you know, what is save streams. Why do we need it? well it's what gives us that resilience that that what I call the bulletproof transport over an Unmanaged network. And what does that mean an unmanaged network? Well, the public Internet is an unmanaged network Cellular for the most part is an unmanaged network Things like that. Now if somebody's running this on their internal corporate network, that would be more of a managed network And of course the devices will work over a managed network But but then that's easy that that's easier, you know, the unmanage is more of the Wild West and then this, you know forward error correction and an AR queue and this this ACK is another way these acknowledgments of reception of packages of packets Is the special sauce and a Nabi West is? delivering a 300 millisecond glass-to-glass Transport so encoding the transmission in the decoding 300 milliseconds now, obviously if we're going over a network that has a 600 millisecond round-trip latency. Well, we'll probably have to increase the latency on our transport to one second, but you know basically that you know that basically that the the transmission rule of thumb usually is The lowest theoretical limit the lowest you can go on your transport latency is about three or four times The round-trip latency of the network You know cellular modems when they're behaving properly are probably at you know, 50 60 milliseconds In one direction so we would estimating about a hundred milliseconds So so you'd multiply that by you know, 100 milliseconds by three or four 300 milliseconds under the right conditions is certainly theoretically possible by common transmission standards there the Aichi 4000 As well as the the portable the pro units The agent 4000 go up to 200 megabits per second that the smaller units can go up to 20 megabits per second The UHD is for 2 to 10 bit Which which is part of the high quality is not for to 0 it's not 8-bit The color depth the the video quality that the the bits are there to give you a superior picture And you know I touched on this before is you know, so how is this Genlock maintained it's you know, I Triple E 1588 or what is that are known as precision timing protocol Basically, you know timing signals are sent through the network So that all the appliances in the a/v West ecosystem are all locked to the same frame reference What helps on some of the transmitters is they have a GPS receiver? With you know, what's the world's most accurate clock a lot of times? We we synchronize our master control clock to GPS that that's the frame reference So so if we're trying to lock to the studio That transmitters a lot of times are pretty close either through The the timestamp from the cellular network or even better from the GPS Network? So we're not completely in left field when a transmitter lights up and tries to talk to the stream of receiver and master control The timing is probably pretty close But then we get it down to be frame accurate lip sync accurate across that network Here's a little breakdown of the of course guys, I mean if I'm going a little fast I'll give you a Copy of I'll email everyone a copy of the PowerPoint when we're done So so you you have you know Here's a typical transmitter that this could be the H II the rackmount unit It could be the portable unit the small air unit the laptop, whatever but but you know, basically here's that here's the The hierarchy so the most important thing is the control channel if we lose control The mechanism is going to fall apart You know, so that's the most important we want to make sure those packets get through So, you know, so the decoder can talk to the encoder. So that's at the top of the stack Then you see also here actually above the control is the a or Q. Those are the packets that get lost So so, you know the video so those two are kind of at the top You know then some other data payload buffering, you know Removing files or other statistics being moved through then audio the audio a or q You know audio packets get dropped. Oh, I'm sorry. The top is the a or Q for the control channel So so so the control channels at the top if if some packet You know gets lost the unit will recover those first just to show the priority of that Then we get into audio and there's a our Q for that Along with audio buffering and then there's the video actually video is last surprise I think any of you guys out there that are audio guys you will know Audio guys know this that the human ear is far less forgiving the flaws or pops or clicks or drop packets the human eye Visually, we extrapolate a lot there's a lot of integration going on, you know Our brain can't process all the pixels. We see in our in our environment. So so we we interpret things or anticipate things and you know, I think there's a lot of neural science behind this so I'm not surprised that video is actually last and audio is is second to the old channel Because you you you know, it's I think audio is one of those things there it's like we don't notice it until something goes wrong until there's a pop or a bet or a click, but you Know audio is an important mental element, you know in theatrical of movies, you know, the the sometimes the the score You know says more than the visual, you know, you know, some spooky is about to happen from the from the soundtrack. So that's that's Kind of the logic behind this and then all that is is Load-balanced and and the packets are scheduled, you know Which packets go out first and how do we synchronize those packets and it you see network statistics? The decoder is telling the transmit mechanism which one of these channels is behaving properly A lot of times people think you know with with communications particularly cellular. It's a question of bandwidth as the problem Usually the first problem is latency On the dashboard in our units, you'll see a modem jump up to three hunt to 3,000 milliseconds and then settle back down they stared sometimes there's these fluctuations so Latency is usually the the first Parameter or the first problem area then of course bandwidth I mean if the pipe has gone away then latency kind of becomes irrelevant if if you lose the connection But the unit is is doing a delicate dance across all these connections and it really doesn't care if the connections are modems or satellite or Some, you know, just any form of IP or Wi-Fi it all seamlessly manages all this Then then here here's how the transport stream is is made up. It's a real-time a protocol You know you do DP stream wrapped in RTP, so the the stream hub receiver Acts as the master clock this gets in the little bit of the precision timing protocol one device on the network decides It's going to be the master Usually in the case of Abbey West it will be one of the stream of receivers in your master control if if if a stream hub should be disconnected from the network for some reason a Second unit will say whoa. Where'd the master clock go? I don't see anyone out there. You know, it'll pull the network Where's the master clock if nobody answers it says hey guys if it's ok I'm going to be the clock now and it takes over So the stream hub it kind of Dovetails in to what I said earlier how that the stream hub controls everything it also acts as the grand master clock for the precision timing protocol So as I said earlier, you know, it's RTP over UDP That's the stream payload And and in that payload is the audio of the video the data and the control then the RTP, you know Which is which is the the whole envelope the whole transport stream that gets since capsulated in this proprietary safe streams So so the the video the audio the data Gets gets packetized as a UDP stream which then gets put into an RTP CH Transport which then gets put into another Encapsulation of safe streams. So it's like UDP inside of RTP inside of safe streams This is what makes it so bulletproof To go through unmanaged networks or cellular networks or the public internet or satellite or whatever and it's this the forward error correction and in the AR queue or the automatic re requests across these twelve IP connections. That's where the magic all happens So that's it guys. I I know I went over an hour there Hopefully you guys found this informative You know if you if you guys have Let me How do I get to my if you guys have any questions let me Let me stop the PowerPoint I want to I want to put something up for you guys I Have some links here if you guys want to You know, we see a big part of our our business as No consulting you know, and if you guys have an active project Of course, you know bonded cellular Encoding but you know, we we do an enterprise IPTV system with digital signage fiber optics. Yeah I'm sure you guys are familiar with our website The link I just sent to you guys Takes you to my bio page on the bid ovation website on the right hand side is is a mechanism to book a meeting with me if you guys have a project that you want to discuss or if you have any deep questions about what what we discussed today I don't see any questions coming up if you guys of course everyone who attended or or actually everyone who registered will get a copy of the PowerPoint and if you guys have have any any questions or comments Certainly certainly reply back here's another link if you guys want to Demo or learn more about the Abbey West ecosystem At this link you can make a request for a demo. No pressure. You know, I'm not I'm not making this sale I'm a firm believer of marketing through education. So hopefully you guys found this Session today educational If there's any questions I can stay on the line for a few more minutes here. I Guess that's it guys. Yeah, you know if you guys think of something in the future Certainly reach out to me Our sales team my colleague Rick Anderson our VP of Sales. He's very knowledgeable You can call the sales department if you need pricing information but certainly feel real free to reach out to me for more of the the technical questions and I would love to do a 30-minute Engineering consultation if you'd like, so, thank you all very much and thank you for tuning in today, and I hope you all have a great weekend and Let me know what you thought of the presentation today I appreciate your feedback Thank you all so much and have a great day in great weekend. Bye. Bye 