 Michael Thorburn: Okay. Michael Thorburn: Welcome everybody to Expo to Michael Thorburn: SAR Cal State LA is first virtual Expo. Michael Thorburn: We have a full complement of presentations today in this this afternoon session will be going from now until six o'clock, pretty much without a break. So if you've got the time we welcome your participation. Michael Thorburn: At each each presentation should last about Michael Thorburn: 20 minutes but they're on 40 minutes centers. So we have plenty of time for questions and answers and discussion now after after the presentation. Michael Thorburn: I've also got a call tricks survey that I'm asking the attendees to fill out to provide some feedback, both to the students and to me in the university as we try to improve our program. Michael Thorburn: I will post the link to the call trek survey in the chat room, but she also have it along with the invitation that you got that. Michael Thorburn: That allowed you to come to this presentation, first place, still, even if you can't find it, and you forget to click on it in the chat room, by all means, send me a note and I'll send you a link to it. We do certainly welcome your opinion. Michael Thorburn: Okay then, without further delay, let me introduce the green commuter team. Michael Thorburn: Welcome team, or you can introduce yourselves and start your presentation. As soon as you're ready. Jagtar Singh: So do we start Michael Thorburn: Yes, please. Jagtar Singh: Okay, hello everyone. Jagtar Singh: Today we're going to present the green computer project of our team lead is Helen Cardona along with our team members Dion you Ryan Paterson fabulous vast Chris and myself jack cursing. Jagtar Singh: Our liaison from the green commuter is go sabo Archie Ozu and our faculty advisor is Dr. Michael Gerber and himself. Next slide. Jagtar Singh: So we will begin with our agenda. So starting with our agenda. I will go over the project objective and background then Dion will take over the technology assessment and development. Jagtar Singh: Brian will then discuss the vehicle state flow simulation, then our team legal cover the V2 Senior Link simulation. Then finally, fabulous will explain the data integration and cost analysis and then it will go back to hell in concluding everything together. Next slide. Jagtar Singh: So the objective of for our senior project was to assess the cutting edge technology and B2B technology and the opportunities that present to design a system where green computer could leverage in V2 G concepts to augment their business. Jagtar Singh: Specifically, their electric vehicle fleet management and charging station installation verticals. Jagtar Singh: And this project has brought us the opportunity to investigate development of technology. Jagtar Singh: capability for vehicles in the green commuter fleet installation of prototypes, the evaluation of the who green computer location as system and the system study in designed for forecasting assessment of technology. Next slide. Jagtar Singh: Your next one. So to begin, let me offer some background information about our views on company green computer Jagtar Singh: Greeting computer. It was founded in 2014 it's an all electric Vancouver provider in California that combines van cooling car sharing and fleet replacement Jagtar Singh: In 2018 CEO this double ought to just establish EV charging solutions under green commuter umbrella. Jagtar Singh: EV charging solutions for Wired charging solutions to public commercial, industrial and multifamily property and parties. If we consist of many different types of course, such as Tesla Model X Nissan Leaf EV starts Chevy bowl. Jagtar Singh: And. Next slide. Jagtar Singh: So vehicle to grid. What is v two g vehicle to grid is it technology that allows the electric vehicle to be used as a mobile energy storage unit. In other words, a mobile battery pack whenever needed Jagtar Singh: It allows the energy to be sent back to the power grid or to be used in other applications, there's many, many benefits of V2, including Jagtar Singh: Demand shifting peak shaving and frequency regulation through bi directional charger or go, it can help balance the whole of power grid system. Next slide. Jagtar Singh: So this is the California curve of this it has all the California loading patterns. Jagtar Singh: This grass and this graph shows typical demand behavior depicted in the blue lines demand is low, Vol people sleep slowly rises as the people wake up and peaks around noon. Jagtar Singh: Then a piece again at 6pm paper soft around 6pm the demand in the day is meant by solar power, hence load shaving. This means that generators are needed less during this time. Jagtar Singh: The Times and that solar power is meeting the demand, then at night generators need to work harder to meet the full demand. Jagtar Singh: There can also be much overproduction of the solar power. As you can see in the figure. It is predicted that overproduction in 2020 compared to the actual demand in 2013 is seven megawatts for California. Jagtar Singh: Here's what were the electric vehicles can help they can store the overproduction and Kurt relative ramp that is seen one the sun goes down. Next slide. Jagtar Singh: So moving on to the next section of starting point of assessment, the technology. So in the beginning, we first Jagtar Singh: First bi directional level three chargers and that's what we were working on, we decided to study them along with the TV star due to its large size battery and open architecture of Ev star. Jagtar Singh: Which also studied different type of connectors specifically level three chargers, which is most available to the public. From there, we moved on. Jagtar Singh: To studying the Tesla Model X adapter. We wanted to see if we can even do V2 GV Tesla because green commuter fleet. Jagtar Singh: mostly consists of Tesla, they have a lot of Tesla's in their fleet. So we wanted to see if that, but due to their clothes architecture, we could not as study that Tesla Model X as well. Jagtar Singh: And their cars, just to go over some of the specification like their EV star, the battery size was 70 kilowatt hour to 95 kilowatt hour Jagtar Singh: And which ranges from hundred 25 200 Miles, whereas the Tesla Model X bad resize ranged from 75 kilowatt over 200 kilowatt hour ranging from 230 70 to 95 miles. Next slide. Jagtar Singh: So from there, we moved on to the another important part of our project the battery management system. Jagtar Singh: The battery management system monitors and manages the state of battery. It basically guardrails, the battery from operating outside it safe operating area if monitors, it's the Jagtar Singh: It calculates secondary data it reports that data while controlling its environment authenticating in balancing it so the manipulation of BMS is basically what allows us to Jagtar Singh: allow the user to control what percentage of the bad read, they want to explore that. Next slide. So from here on the on will take over the technology assessment and development with you guys. Thank you very much. Deion Au: Thank you, Dr. Hi, my name is Deon I'll be talking about the vehicle to grid device, our group has been interested in Deion Au: With vehicle to grid comes vehicle do anything electric vehicles are simply a battery with wheels as California aims for a greener future vehicle to grid is just to start Deion Au: Through hardware, software and service this empowers people to do incredible things every day, I'll be explaining the hardware utility regulation software and how we plan on implementing it looks like Deion Au: As my colleague, Jackie mentioned we researched several ideas on how to produce our own prototype of vehicle to grid. Deion Au: Our final idea was to look into other companies that have researched and developed this technology. Deion Au: It discovered a company called New Bay, which has been developing this technology for years. Deion Au: We chose newbie to be our vehicle to grid as a hardware and energy management supplier for green commuters charging station network. Deion Au: Due to their convenience, their main headquarters is located in San Diego, making it easier to communicate. Deion Au: This is the new way power port new base first generation vehicle to grid device as many other rules and regulations such of US 1741 stating that the inverter AC DC converter must be low to the ground and not implemented into a vehicle, making it mobile. Next slide. Deion Au: Here's the AC vs DC configuration for electric vehicle charges. As you can see the safety regulations standard I've just mentioned, you are 1741 Deion Au: On the left of standard J 1772 does not not new base model does not meet the utility safety requirements. The inverter is mounted on to the vehicle, making it mobile Deion Au: On the right you can see that it has met the utility safety regulation that the inverter is not it into the charger and onto the floor, making it not mobile Deion Au: Next, Deion Au: Up is actually the software manufacturer for vehicle to grid and the hardware implementation is done by Hitachi Deion Au: Electric vehicles have been looked down upon because of their limited range and the time it took to charge Deion Au: So why would I want you to discharge your vehicle battery and drain it while you are at work when your real intentions are going to work. Deion Au: On charger cars. So you have enough battery to drive home and drive back to work the next day. Well, there's an incentive and you do get paid for it. Who doesn't like making passive income. Deion Au: Vehicle to grid post the energy management management back into the hands of people by turning their electric vehicles into mobile energy storage. Deion Au: New Day has brought out a vehicle to grid program in Denmark Copenhagen and the research shows an average individual could gain $2,000 a year from vehicle to grid. Deion Au: Next, Deion Au: As I mentioned newbies a software company and they have created the grid Integrated Vehicle software. Deion Au: The software allows the user to see the power flow of their car, whether is charging or discharging they also do so much more Deion Au: That their software allows you to schedule your charge discharge. So the system can accommodate your battery or when you will leave Deion Au: You can also tell the system when to stop discharging and focus on charging it also has an emergency charge if your vehicle is currently discharging and you are needed somewhere else immediately or later. Deion Au: Next, Deion Au: Nevertheless, we also consider installing installing newbies be to G device in our liaison song as he has a solar panel with an interconnection agreement with the city. Deion Au: Where we also needed more regulation approvals from his utility company which would have taken months to achieve eating months to achieve these approvals. This idea would not have been ideal for our current project. Deion Au: Next, Deion Au: So now that we have picked our movie charger and our vehicle preference, we will create a stimulation to demonstrate what is happening in the vehicle side and charger. Deion Au: We have created a simulation to demonstrate the Cal State LA lo to see the effects. It causes would be a good grid, my colleague Brian would not be talking about the vehicle state flow. Brian Patterson: And you Dion. Hello, everyone. I'm Brian. Today I will be telling you guys about stay for Brian Patterson: Right in this phase of our project team was advised by Advisor Michael were born to treat as a flow diagram and Brian Patterson: The reason for this was because we stay for diagram, we were able to see various states of the vehicle and charger identify different parameters and conditions for these changes days to occur and how to use the input exit system. Brian Patterson: To make to make this Dave to make a diagram. First, the team had to come to an agreement on a couple things. Brian Patterson: Those things where the vehicle we based the simulation on and conditions and prayers and watch TV two G's activated in the vehicle. Brian Patterson: Vehicle decision was easy to agree on. We chose and he saw you, since this is the view core ideas on once and it was easier to get information on the vehicle. Brian Patterson: The conditional which be two G's activated took some effort to come to a solution. At first we want to be to do to activate whenever the grid needed help. Brian Patterson: But what a lot of time we can come up with character which is on the grid for the diagram and and we chose to have eg activate during the time interval. I wish there is a strain on the grid. Brian Patterson: That time interval is from 3pm to 9pm just made things easier in creating the simulation since the conditions on which V2 to activate it is dependent on the state of charge and the vehicle and time of day excited Brian Patterson: This has been a police state for diagram the medium. What you guys notice is the to overstate or super states called vehicle charging you had gotten license it of silence. Brian Patterson: Is it because they are kind of stage, which means they will run at the same time. This is what we want, because we wanted a diagram to simulate real life situations between the vehicle in charger. Next slide. Brian Patterson: Here's a chart diagram. Yeah, the hashtag controller state in which is gathering information such as time of day. The state of charge of the vehicle represented by. Soc. Brian Patterson: A movie at the charge against the user input on what the student charged level, they want to view Colette that is represented by desired SoC in how long the user wants to charge their vehicle that is represented by the city. Brian Patterson: The city is achieved the vehicle stops charging and is ready to be unplugged by the user. Brian Patterson: The other two students or when a charger is giving energy to the vehicle when the charger is giving energy to the grid. And when the vehicle was on the lines of code in between each day are the conditions to go from west, east and next next Brian Patterson: This is the vehicle diagram. Here you can see when the vehicle was charging and discharging on. And again, the lines of code in between each day or the conditions in which to go from mistakes and next next Brian Patterson: In summary, we learned the various days that the vehicle in charge of go through to achieve eg based on the conditions retreated. Brian Patterson: Our. The main thing that can be done to improve the model is the created to create a implemented character, which is the grid tomorrow to the model so that it gets a better understanding of how the greatest fix the system next Brian Patterson: Knowledge to you guys to tell you about our V2 simulation simulation. Helen Argandona: Everyone I will be discussing the 24 hours simulation as a vehicle to get system, we decided to move from the safer simulation to simulate because it provides us an opportunity to do an analysis with the load system. Helen Argandona: The simulations provided by math works. This includes a photo take farm a wind farm and a diesel generator on one says the transformer Helen Argandona: The other side of the transformer includes the VTT block and a low block that consists of the industrial and residential loads the simulation up. It's an array of the energy usage for every second within the 24 hour time frame. Helen Argandona: For simulation we have removed the photovoltaic farm farm and industrial load. To do this, we had commented out the blocks with their respective variables within the simulation. Helen Argandona: You modify the simulation to show us a data for the nisa system created the first system, we will look at as a diesel generator which author presents the power grid. Helen Argandona: Under the mask of the diesel block we are able to see how the system works. The system outputs that they face powered called A, B, and C, as seen on the right, bottom corner. Helen Argandona: There also named one two and three respectively. This is some also demonstrates the power in charge this block creates on the right upper corner we use a diesel power for data. You can see this variable next to the green diesel scope on the right upper corner. Helen Argandona: Now we will talk about the load block under the mask. You can see where the industrial load as a digital load is located. However, we do not consider the industrial load data for our simulation. Helen Argandona: We did this by commenting out the output power variable, so it does not affect the system we only use the output data for the residential load or also known as a castle a look Helen Argandona: Here we are looking underneath the mask for the big block. Helen Argandona: This system is that they face power with the effects of the charging and regulation of the vehicles. You can see the input of the to face power on the top. Helen Argandona: As you can see, the system has two parts. The left is regulation side and the right is the charging side charging occurs in the grid gives power to let your variable. Helen Argandona: To actually vehicle regulation occurs and electric vehicles give energy back to the grid. The important variables you take note of our VIP and BBC above the voltage measurement blocks. Helen Argandona: These variables are inputted into the VTT system which outputs. That is correct. And I'd be current Helen Argandona: You can see this Krantz being inputted back into the three phase power system right below the orange and yellow current blocks. I will show you how these variables are using the next few slides. Helen Argandona: At the bottom corners of the figure. We can also see the output of power and charge for regulation and charging. Now we will talk about the car profiles block in the middle. Helen Argandona: underneath the car profile mask, we are able to see the total amount of profiles, the simulation came with five different profiles, however, we come to it out to Mr fit them to represent the different types of students attending campus. Helen Argandona: Here we take a closer look up what kind of profiles are looking at and the overall vehicle parameters on this picture to the left. These are the parameters of each. Did you block needs. It consists of rated power capacity and system efficiency. Helen Argandona: These parameters I chosen to represent and ideal and it's only for the TG compatibility underneath that. There's also an option to turn the TV on or off. Helen Argandona: Below that, we also decide the amount of vehicles per car profile for the simulation use 100 vehicles and total Helen Argandona: On the picture to the right, we can see the three different profiles, you have created the first profile the top represents a student who attends campus throughout the morning and afternoon. Helen Argandona: In the graph the signal goes high, when the vehicle is plugged in and Sydney goes low when the vehicles not plugged in. Helen Argandona: And the first times of the day the vehicles plugged in at home, then it unplugged for about an hour on his computer casserly Helen Argandona: Wants it arrives on campus. It is plugged in, again, and it is applied on the commute home and puts back in. Once a vehicles back on. Helen Argandona: The graph in the middle is the second profile which represents a student who has only evening classes. The third profile represents a student who only has morning classes. Helen Argandona: Here we see underneath one of the car profile blocks. This demonstrates how to modify the simulation and how the changes of like the simulation. Helen Argandona: From muster right the simulation starts at the time as an input, then we are able to edit when CDs are charging the vehicles on campus in the started state of charge initialization table and the table. Helen Argandona: These tables are inputs to the state of charge block and tragic control block those boxes terminal and the vehicles, either in charge mode or regulation. Helen Argandona: And this block we are seeing the electric vehicles and they are charging you can see the VB BBC variables in the left corner the blocks. Use the parameters and voltage variables to convert it to complex power than the outputs are the current on the right upper corner. I am an IV. Helen Argandona: In this park were able to see the regulation process. It is similar to the system when electric vehicle charging the inputs IV ABC on the left and then can resist the complex power than the opposite occurrence. I ate an IB. Helen Argandona: Now you're able to see the amount of cars in charge and cars and regulation with respect to time. Helen Argandona: This was all comes from running all the profiles together and the left picture, we can see the cars are tragic in the afternoon and evening and the right picture we are able to see that Carson regulation in the morning. Helen Argandona: Now, Fabio will talk to you about data integration and cost analysis. Fabiola Vazques: Thank you, Alan. Hello, my name is tabula and so far we've talked about phase one, the importance of the TG with respect to frequency regulation and how easy is provide a solution to California set current problem. Fabiola Vazques: We've also taken stock of the customers inventory and assess what vehicles would be ideal to implement the TG and in phase two. Fabiola Vazques: We explored the relationship between the vehicle and the charger and how one state of the vehicle depends on the other within state flow. Fabiola Vazques: This allowed us to figure out different conditions and parameters for each state. We then saw how we use simulate to simulate the load within the V2 system and the grid. Fabiola Vazques: Now this brings us to face three where we change load parameters with a Cal State LA data to formulate a cost analysis. Next slide please. Fabiola Vazques: Now I will walk you through the tools used in order to create a daily use load model for the campus where the model is applied within the simulation. The DWP rates used to create cost analysis and finally the results. Next slide. Fabiola Vazques: I was tasked with applying the Cal State LA lo data. Kevin Alavez: Into the model. Fabiola Vazques: I use data given to the team by Brad Hedo. Fabiola Vazques: Cal State LA energy and sustainability manager, the data is seen on the left which is the schools meter readings for the month of March 29 Fabiola Vazques: through November 2019 this data is used along with the load models created by the CDC in their report. Fabiola Vazques: California investor owned utility electricity load shapes in this report they outline for different loads loads models specific to California College campuses for a 24 hour period. And they have one for each season. Fabiola Vazques: Next slide. Fabiola Vazques: The load models were then input into the mask residential load which is actually the Cal State LA campus as seen on the bottom of the slide. Fabiola Vazques: Next slide please. Fabiola Vazques: The outputs which were most interested in where the vehicle loads the residential load the combined or total load and the diesel power. Fabiola Vazques: Most importantly we're interested in the cost of energy at low and high peaks, as well as the base energy charge we created code that takes in the output data from the simulation and calculates utility costs. Fabiola Vazques: We use DWP rates, along with billing data also provided by Brad Hedo based on the billing data, we found that the school is categorized as a large commercial and multi Family Service. Great. A three Fabiola Vazques: Next slide. Fabiola Vazques: Here's a sample of the aforementioned code here. We're able to calculate the low P costs. The high P costs bait based energy costs and from that the total costs variations of this code reviews for all four seasons. Fabiola Vazques: Next slide. Fabiola Vazques: And here we see the energy consumed throughout a top 24 hour period. Firstly legends shows the vehicle load and yellow. This is the sum of all EBS in regulation and charging power consumption. The I'm Fabiola Vazques: Sorry, I'm going to start over on that, firstly religion shows the vehicle load and yellow. This is the sum of all ease and regulation and charging power consumption. Fabiola Vazques: The diesel in red shows the amount of power provided from the utility company and the total load and green, which is the sum of Cal State LA load and all the BS. Fabiola Vazques: On the left hand side we see that v2 G is enabled. And on the right, the two g is disabled. Fabiola Vazques: On the left hand side we see that the these are taking power from the grid and yellow, whereas on the right hand side, the these are flatline at zero. Fabiola Vazques: This highlights an issue we encountered where the these are simply disconnected from the load and are not getting power back to the total load. Fabiola Vazques: This is also verified by looking at the shape of the total load in green. It is much smoother. On the right hand side, no effect from the EBS versus the left Fabiola Vazques: The green line which has apparent ridges from the 80s loading effects. Ideally, we wanted to see the yellow line go into the negative side of the megawatt axis, indicating that it is actually giving power back to Cal State LA and reducing the load by discharging Fabiola Vazques: The month September and November, it showed the same pattern as a scene in April. Fabiola Vazques: Next slide. Fabiola Vazques: Here we see that same pattern in September, the vehicles on the right are not connected. Next slide. Fabiola Vazques: And here we see the same pattern in November, the vehicles on the right are not connected Fabiola Vazques: Next line. Fabiola Vazques: Here we're able to calculate the low cost, high P costs and the total cost for one day. Again, we see our issues highlighted in red, where the total energy consumed is decreased when the 2G is off. Fabiola Vazques: But we saw that this was due to the fact that the vehicles were simply disconnected from the grid. Fabiola Vazques: We expected to do to see a decrease in consumed power when V2 G was enabled as the campus would pull energy from the vehicles and therefore reduce the load of the school as a scene from the grid. Fabiola Vazques: Future research should focus on this disconnecting issue in order to see the actual benefits would be to G impossible savings. Now, am I calling Kellen will make some final comments and suggestions about our experience with the green commuter project. Thank you for your time. Helen Argandona: Thank you. In conclusion, we were able to accomplish our first objective we have researched various methods to implement V to g to the green community flee. Helen Argandona: Let's acknowledges, we looked at include the Bi Directional charger a Tesla X adapter for the charges and the battery management system. Helen Argandona: We have discovered that ideal vehicle to use for me to Jesus and he suddenly for its current bi directional flow compatibility. And because our liaison has many nice on these in the fleet. Helen Argandona: However, all these technologies are not ready for the market to us because of the current US VTT regulations those regulations will be ready in the near future. Helen Argandona: We were also able to accomplish our second objective we determine what hardware to use, which is a new way bi directional flow tracker. Helen Argandona: We pick a location to do our experiments such as the lease on home with the PV system. Helen Argandona: Once installation is complete we have plan to use various measures to evaluate our system. However, installing this will take various lots of trying to get permission from the local utility utility, which is not within the senior design timeframe. Helen Argandona: We have also completed our last objective, which is sees a simulation to study in design for forecasts and assessment of technologies, the simulation needs to be improved summer regulation occurs, to be able to decrease the power usage. Helen Argandona: Now we will talk about their experience of observations in this project are quiet when commuter is a startup company, and given that we found that our customer was easier to break ground on the TG technologies. Helen Argandona: So we spend a lot of the first phase of senior design doing research. The circle of time and most of our researchers my ears. Helen Argandona: We have tried to learn various different things about we TG we were looking at it and through wildland and we needed a more narrow focus Helen Argandona: Afterwards, the team was able to join a table business feeding at San Diego between green computer and new way. Helen Argandona: The company that owns the hardware that we have chosen Helen Argandona: In this meeting, we learned about Lewis advancement in the B2B space. We also learned that the various regulations that prevent me to G to occur in the United States. Helen Argandona: And this meeting green community also need to purchase new a bi directional charges as well as there's all this meeting our requirements. I've kept evolving throughout the fall semester. Helen Argandona: Being commuter on the team found that the technology was further advanced than what we had anticipated and this has led to a moment of refocusing on what the senior design team can do to help green commuter Helen Argandona: This is when we had decided to use a simulation and demonstrate how he can affect the load of constantly this decision was made at the end of the fall semester. Helen Argandona: From this project we have learned the real world experience with working with startup companies decisions are made quickly and pivoting the team's direction can occur in a matter of the day. The fact felt a little like whiplash from the quick changes in direction. Helen Argandona: Now I will talk about the next step for this project green commuters waiting for regulation to allow for frequency regulation. So this is, this leads to the reevaluation of the current project. Helen Argandona: It can be a new project implementing be to do technology on campus to make the campus more green Helen Argandona: Or if the VT G regulation allows it perhaps can be working on a green community or equal to continue inverter for bi directional flow. Helen Argandona: We are not sure what can be the next project, but this will be decided for the next scene angering commuter Helen Argandona: As simulation simulation is to be modified to learn more regulation to occur throughout the day. This will allow for a decrease of load and will shave the castle you load. Helen Argandona: We also think that a new relationship with LED WP is needed, it would be brave for senior design team to work with DWP to validate or improve a cost analysis for costs, Italy. Helen Argandona: Another option for this project is develop a relationship with the castle, a school of business to improve this simulation to make us a more sustainable. Helen Argandona: With college and we CSC and business has worked before to work on a project with the hydrogen stations and we believe that this might also be great project to implement on the campus. Helen Argandona: Now our team would like to use a time to think Michael Gerber and for helping us on the various times, you had gotten stuck. Thank you for raising our team and helping us during the race functions of MATLAB. Helen Argandona: We would also like to thank the green community establish Ian for helping us learn more about their fleet and going above and beyond to communicate with movie at San Diego. Helen Argandona: We would also like to thank Brad Heyerdahl the energy and sustainability manager of custody for cooperating with us on creating the little model for the simulation. You'd also have to thank everyone for attending our presentation. Thank you. And are there any more questions. Michael Thorburn: Okay, thank you. Team. Michael Thorburn: Very interesting presentation we have we have plenty of time for questions. All you need to do is unmute your microphone and then just step up to the mic. Michael Thorburn: Anybody have any questions. Jorge Ramirez: But first I'd like to congratulate you for a great presentation. I was just wondering is, as, as you as your batteries in your cars charge up in discharge. Jorge Ramirez: Through this through the system that that you're analyzing here. Does that have an impact on the lifetime of the car battery as well, or does that have a cost impact because that would impact your costs in the long run. Helen Argandona: Yes, so we have done some research on whether it affects it or not. And I believe there is some charges that can allow for the depletion of batteries to like Helen Argandona: The life of the battery to decrease, but we believe that the new recharges they use from their own tests they have not seen the depletion of batteries. So the life would be longer. Jorge Ramirez: Thank you. Great presentation, I enjoy Jorge Ramirez: To participate in Jorge Ramirez: Listening. Thanks. Jagtar Singh: Thank you. Brian Patterson: Thank you. Deion Au: Thank you. Other questions. Michael Thorburn: Me ask the students then Michael Thorburn: Given everything that you've done this semester. What which part of it. Did you find to be the most interesting Fabiola Vazques: Didn't take a gander at that one. So I think at the beginning of the last semester I was really curious to see how far along. Fabiola Vazques: The technology was and kind of the, the secret that many companies didn't really want to release. How far along they were mainly because regulation. Fabiola Vazques: It just isn't there, and the State of California is surely trying to be ahead of the curve with respect to being more green. But as far as the whole of the US is concerned. Fabiola Vazques: Like just getting our government on board is really holding back a lot of research and a lot of companies. So I kind of found that like a really exciting place to really just be exposed to all of these companies just striving to Fabiola Vazques: I mean, I guess lobby and and just seeing the the collision of government and company and research and and really how that holds companies back but yet they still have to be adventurous. So I thought that was very interesting. Michael Thorburn: Thank you, Fabio anybody else. Jagtar Singh: Also, I'd like to see like what I found really interesting was like the whole idea of working with a startup company. Jagtar Singh: And I mean we learned a lot. Working through like every everything can change in a day as like Helen said in the presentation. Jagtar Singh: Many of the times we're working on one thing and then our liaison wants to work on something else. So we would do that. So that's, it's a really new experience of working with a startup company and I kind of Jagtar Singh: I kind of liked it too. And I basically but I learned. I got to learn from it a lot. So that's, I find that more interesting. Michael Thorburn: Okay, thank you, Jerry. Michael Thorburn: There any other questions. Michael Thorburn: Okay. If not, well, let me thank the team for presenting it was very interesting presentation so want to thank Michael Thorburn: Green commuter was a member of the LA clean tech incubator and we've had a good partnership with them over the last few years. So I'd like to thank them for helping us meet and work with Gustavo and his team at at Michael Thorburn: At green computer Michael Thorburn: Okay. Michael Thorburn: Our next presentation will begin in about five minutes. This is going to be a lithium ion battery management system presentation. Michael Thorburn: As the team queues up somebody will will take over the screen. Jagtar Singh: Guys. Helen Argandona: Thank you. Deion Au: Thank you. Brian Patterson: Thank you. Fabiola Vazques: Thank you. Michael Thorburn: Don't forget for everybody to fill out the quarterback survey and provide us some feedback. It's really important. Thank you. Michael Thorburn: Let's see. Anybody here yet for the next team. I guess they're doing last minute preparations. Michael Thorburn: Well, we will get going again in about five minutes. So just standby, please. Michael Thorburn: Don't go anywhere, lots of exciting material yet to come. Michael Thorburn: You can start whenever you're ready. Ammal Nabilsi: Good afternoon. Thank you for being here. This is team 32 the lithium ion battery management system advised by Dr. And the third to Bertie. My name is an LLC and my teammates are David on Monday. David Diaz and Patrick song. Today we will go over the background. Oh. Next slide. Ammal Nabilsi: Today we will go over the background, the objective, the system. Overview system structure and design the hardware and the software. Ammal Nabilsi: Next slide. Ammal Nabilsi: Let me begin by giving you a little background about the lithium ion battery. Ammal Nabilsi: Lithium is the lightest metal with the greatest electro chemical potential on the largest Ammal Nabilsi: Energy density per weight of all metals found in nature, but the. Am I on is a type of rechargeable battery that is most commonly used in electric vehicles and so application. Ammal Nabilsi: Lithium ion is a number has a number of advantages compared to other storage devices is high power high energy density high efficiency has long life cycle low discharge rate. Ammal Nabilsi: Despite all these advantages lithium ion batteries still require a protective device to maintain safe operation. Next slide. Ammal Nabilsi: This device is known as the battery management system. Ammal Nabilsi: A battery management system is simply an embedded system made of purpose built electronics, combined with software to enable a set of specific application. Ammal Nabilsi: Battery management systems differ depending on the application. However, the main task of the BMS is keeping check on key operational parameters during charging and discharging such as voltage current and battery temperature Ammal Nabilsi: The monitoring circuit provide input to the microcontroller that determines a different state to a battery such a state of charge. Soc. Ammal Nabilsi: Most battery management systems, including ours have a capability to isolate the battery and the rest of the system during fault. Ammal Nabilsi: Well, when considering considering the battery management system. There are generally two specifications, you should consider I'll go over those on the next slide. Ammal Nabilsi: Understanding the rapidly changing market, it is important to know the types of products available. Ammal Nabilsi: There are available features and of course the cop. Here we have a table, comparing our BMS to commercialize DNS is or off the shelf DNS is from different manufacturers. Well, what are, what are the best trade off in the end, it depends on your particular application and design requirements. Ammal Nabilsi: But you'll see that in most cases BMS is composed some inexpensive electronics allow for less reliable battery management systems and BMS those that are built from higher quality electronic tend to be more expensive but end up being more reliable and therefore extend the battery life. Ammal Nabilsi: Now that I've given you a little background on battery management system. Let me go over some of the key objectives. Ammal Nabilsi: Combining Ammal Nabilsi: software and hardware of our system. Ammal Nabilsi: The battery our battery management system census temperature measures voltage measures current avoid overcharging over discharging communicate with the microcontroller is able to detect any fault. Ammal Nabilsi: And give us a accurate. Soc. Ammal Nabilsi: Now that I've discussed the background and the objectives, as David on Monday. David Almonte: So for this portion. I'll be going over the system overview and our hardware requirements for our, our, excuse me, our functional requirements for our hardware. David Almonte: Were for the hardware to be able to measure cell voltage, the overall battery pack voltage and the overall battery pack current David Almonte: The hardware had to protect the battery itself from over discharge and overcharge by opening a contractor. David Almonte: And needed to communicate with from the microcontroller to the sensors in order to protect the battery itself the functional requirements for the software was to control the operations of the hardware and by making decision. David Almonte: Decisions and estimate estimate states for the sensors. David Almonte: To control the to send signals to the contact you and control that and give an accurate SoC estimation. Next slide. David Almonte: The performance requirements for our hardware was to be able to measure. David Almonte: Five volts. David Almonte: Excuse me for the hardware and the current transducers needed to be able to measure at least 70 apps continuous in 120 amps pulsating the temperature sensor had to have a range within negative 30 degrees to 55 degrees Celsius and the automatic David Almonte: DC contactor had to be able to measure up to 24 volts in 200 amps DC and as far as the software. The software had to be programmed to measure the temperature range of negative 30 degrees Celsius to 55 degrees. David Almonte: Discharge a switch. If it exceeded 3.6 volts. And I'm dating update information for the cell voltage the current and the temperature David Almonte: Next line. David Almonte: So the capabilities of our individual parts like the microcontroller had to be able to analyze an analog inputs and outputs and X have a acceptable reasonable processing time David Almonte: To that would send the signal and communicate with other external devices. The voltage centers had to measure between zero and five volts, the current sensor between zero amps and 70 amps continuously and the contactor had to David Almonte: Meet the parameters of measuring 21.6 volts and 70 amps and the temperature sensor, of course, like I mentioned before, between 30 degrees Celsius and 55 degrees Celsius. David Almonte: Excuse me, the David Almonte: Next slide. David Almonte: So we were given a budget of $300 for our overall project. David Almonte: We slightly exceeded that budget by I guess $37 and 10 cents. Our most expensive parts were the current transducer David Almonte: Which was $130 and the DC contactor which was $138 but overall, we, we came close to the budget, maybe slightly went over, but we were able to buy quality parts that fit that pretty much fit within the range of our budget. David Almonte: Next slide. David Almonte: Um, so we had three phases we broke down our David Almonte: Our projects into three phases. The first phase was the requirements and the concepts which we began with the scope of the project. David Almonte: We did research on individual parts in the specs and we estimated the cost of each individual parts. David Almonte: We came up with the requirements and the performance. The functional requirements and the performance requirements for our system. David Almonte: Chose the capability of each individual hardware for the second phase of the project. We began by designing a block diagram of our system and creating a lithium ion battery on a real time simulator before we connected our system to a real battery. David Almonte: Our group started the solid works design of the of the actual overall package and we also began coding for the for the state of charge estimation for the battery. David Almonte: And for the third phase of the project that's when we began to test the voltage temperature and current sensors that we had purchased. See if they met our requirements. David Almonte: We finished the solid work version of the we were wrapping up the final a solid work version of our BMS package and we connected to the centers to the raptor controller to make sure that the system would rent would run way that we expected it to run David Almonte: Next slide. David Almonte: Here's a work breakdown structure. David Almonte: Our advisor was Dr Usha Verde and he communicated to our team leader and our team leader. David Almonte: With a break down each task and communicate to us as well. And our team leader was in charge of the software David DS was in charge of the hardware and I mail was in charge of the structural design of the project and I was in charge of the assembling the package. Next slide. David Almonte: And then here is a David Almonte: A overview of our entire system, the voltage sensor connects in parallel with the battery. The current sensor is connected in series with the battery pack and same for the temperature sensor and the microcontroller converts voltage current and temperature from analog to digital David Almonte: The controller was programmed to measure and display all the information to the user. And that would would have been displayed on a small screen. David Almonte: Next slide. David Almonte: And then David Almonte: Excuse me here is David Almonte: A male to talk about the structures of the project. Ammal Nabilsi: Here is a solid would sketch of what we had planned to be our final deliverable our design includes a microcontroller. A sensors six a current sensor, a Ammal Nabilsi: temperature sensor six volts extensors ATC switch the 8123 batteries and the battery taste. Ammal Nabilsi: Everything sketched is according to scale, except for the microcontroller, the microcontroller that we chose for our system with a lot larger than your typical microcontroller, although we still wanted to include it in the solver sketch. So that was the only item that scaled down Ammal Nabilsi: As for the wiring. We plan to wire the components using a 14 copper 514 copper wires in the overall design and the layout, we Ammal Nabilsi: In the overall design of the package we were, we were able to meet all the system specifications dimensions and temperature limitation. So that's Ammal Nabilsi: The only thing missing is obviously the actual Ammal Nabilsi: final product that we weren't able to do do do COPPA 19 but now that you have a visual of our final presentation of our final product. This is my teammate David Diaz to go over the hardware. David Diaz: Hello, Dave with us. And I'm talking about the hardware. David Diaz: So in order for BMS to work. We need a bio components we needed a vulture sensor current sensor temperature sensor, but we also bought an automatic DC contactor to to help protect our batteries and everything is connected via input to our raptor controller. Next slide. David Diaz: So the voltage sensor we bought six of these water sensors. Each that can handle up to 250 evil input. David Diaz: To test out the sensors we we applied Kurt cause voltage law. So we can compare both the measured values and that the ethical values. David Diaz: Us the voltage centers, they send out a signal that to our microcontroller that can manage so we can manage the voltage values these voltage values are used to help calculate SoC within the microcontroller. David Diaz: Next slide. David Diaz: The current transducer that we bought has a can go up to 70 amps continuous, but if there was a fault that was to happen the currency that can detect the fall up to 120 amps for about 10 seconds and it sends a signal to protect the battery. David Diaz: To maintain the battery. So within safe operation. We need to measure this current. So the batteries. Don't lose. It's like it's full value to hold. What is the full power. David Diaz: We used to cool counting to to calculate the Soc. And the current sensor is in series with both the power supply and the battery packs. Excellent. David Diaz: So the temperature sensor that we purchased was between negative 30 degrees Celsius and 70 degrees Celsius. It is responsible to measure the temperature of the battery because he can really kill batteries. David Diaz: You can feel it on your phone as well when it gets hot, that can potentially kill your battery sensors. The, the temperature sensor that we bought gave us David Diaz: The value we would read was a resistance value. So we had to build a circuit using a caveat to get a voltage value, the resistance value is assigned to its temperature value in Celsius. David Diaz: So this temperature sensor came with the chart that showed us if the resistance value came out to X number than the template, it would, it is equivalent to this temperature and if the temperature conditions were out of our range of the sensors will communicate with our microcontroller. David Diaz: Next slide. David Diaz: Next is the automatic DC contactor. So the, the contractor serves as a safety device to isolate batteries from the risks from the risk of the system. David Diaz: The contractor will disconnect from the load with when limits limitations or exceeded the contactor is connected in series with our batteries and his input into our app there so economic send a signal to to disconnect. So the batteries won't get damaged. David Diaz: Next slide. David Diaz: So this is a circuit diagram of the of our final our final circuit diagram of what our system would look like. David Diaz: And if each each value has its has its own input to our microcontroller. And then if you see on top. David Diaz: On top. A, we have our current sensor which is connected in series with our contractor and if you notice as a nine volt additional battery that we connected to our contractor because our, our, the context that we had purchased only went up to 20 volts, but we needed David Diaz: Leave 2525 volts to meet our requirements. So we needed to attach a nine volt battery and at the bottom is our temperature sensor which we also connected we connected a 250 kilo ohm resistor. So it could read a valley of voltage value between zero to five. David Diaz: Next slide. David Diaz: And this shows our, our, our test board and this is what we were able to complete and if you can see David Diaz: We were able to connect our temperature sensor to our microcontroller and our voltage sensors at the bottom, but because of coven 19 or we weren't able to finally implement our David Diaz: Current sensor and our DC contactor. We have our power supply which gate which is plugged into our voltage sensors and then our oldest center is connected into each clearances has its own input. David Diaz: And the temperature sensor, as well as connects to its own input. And when all the when, when we simulate it. It sends all the information to through a canvas, which is displayed on to our monitor and shows the values that we are trying to record. David Diaz: And next, my partner Patrick is with will be talking about software. Patrick Duong: Hello. I'm Patrick and I got to be talking about a software portion of our battery management system. Patrick Duong: In here, these a lot of our Patrick Duong: Software block out of our, our battery management system we have the input is both a current and temperature. This will mention and bottom the flotation circa and sensor and temperature sensor and we have the output is SoC so as Patrick Duong: Both a current timber ratio and also we have the output from come from that come on my next one so equality visa and 40 Texan. Patrick Duong: The controllers on to be received the signal from the world taker and temporary and they gotta be convert the analog signal to the signal by our by using or that signal we are ramming the controller to St. My our. Soc. And also sending all the necessary information. We'll see. So the Patrick Duong: Both a current and temporary nature to the display to convert Patrick Duong: To convert and also we are, and also the temperature is going to be sending the signal to the thermal management block thermal management block gonna be keeping the battery in the sippy rang. Patrick Duong: If the temperature of the battery to hide the Go button on the fan and if the Patrick Duong: If the if the temperature is too low in the heat is going to be turned up. Patrick Duong: The cell. Patrick Duong: The cell equality as a service will be received a wolf a signal and then they got to be keep the voltage of the battery in the safety ring. Patrick Duong: If any Patrick Duong: If the voltage of the battery is as high up there and it will be sending the signal out to the just quick and then popular right a battery. Patrick Duong: And also, again, the voltage current and temperatures are going to be saying to the for detection block. And in here, they're going to be doing all the same chocolates and up the thermal management and stare equaliser Patrick Duong: In, in case of any like for management or Seroquel is a Sir is not working. Patrick Duong: During the cobras 19 and our, perchance, we don't have enough time enough money to working on the thermal management and end of sale equalities Acer also the x or x Patrick Duong: In here. This is our mobile app team ruling power battery management system. Patrick Duong: In here, I, we were using the Tyson, the subsystem. The system subsystems last Bayram to have to recreate to build a similar thing for a Patrick Duong: For a current temperature and vote a lie. You can see right here we have the curve, we have the block around for current what temperature and for both a Patrick Duong: And we also have the measurement on the muscle and block this loss is going to be more team this locker we measuring or that signal and then receive and monitor the real time management and the measurement of the vote a current member ratio to the display. Patrick Duong: This is Patrick Duong: This is what is this what the stumbling block bear around for the vote a Patrick Duong: We have the another block include by on using the data sets are the controllers, we can see lack the in the input number we won by you see right here. We I was Patrick Duong: I will select the the input seven with the could have dow is a 161 eight sorry 681 K put up and the rest of the bat input is from zero to five and Patrick Duong: The full the full Analog, digital Tao is there 1495 in here in this box mega be the controller going to be automatically convert the analog signal to the digital signal. So that's half to that half or two measurement to Patrick Duong: To display the value. So we have another block is called as digital to analog converter in here. We will be convert the calm the digital signal back to the analog signal by on knowing rolling their minimum and maximum and a lot middle cow. Patrick Duong: So we have another block. Each card has come very the block this block is using for the for the Texan one. So, if any, the, the battery voltage is higher than higher or lower than the rain so that the Patrick Duong: The software we display and tell the youth and let the user know is a have any half have a happened into the ever happened with the battery. Patrick Duong: Because at the beginning of the plan. We are our team laying using the sick battery and they all connect in theory. So at the end we have to adding all of them together. Patrick Duong: This is the block, bam, for the temperature, same thing. We can select the analog input for our temperature Patrick Duong: And in here, I we are using the input 14 we will select all the order input which have a stem put up and put out so that have easy to convert the digital to analog Patrick Duong: In here is how we Patrick Duong: At the measurement in the hardware Stetson we using the caveat to convert to send in the water of the temporary nature into the our Patrick Duong: To our to our controller, but the data, she's given us is a history of the temperature between the reregister and Tema ratio. So we have to come. So we have to convert the water temperature back into Patrick Duong: The release one. So this is how we grow RAM to convert to convert the prototype on temperature sensor to the Risa Patrick Duong: And we use thing. And in here, map function we using the interpolation by on knowing the pre register and the temporary we can roll. We can using the to the lookup table to telling the telling Patrick Duong: The software at week at what Risa mega be sending the, what kind of the temperature at that time for us because we normally we working with the Fahrenheit. Most so it's hard for us to Patrick Duong: rigging the Celsius one. So in here we decide to add in another one is called the Celsius to Fahrenheit and these are these are question we are, how we cover it. Patrick Duong: And this is the current lock my around at something has in here in here, attempting we using the different. How are we using the analog input. Patrick Duong: And then we have to convert this one from the digital signals to the analog signal and right here. These and the and the current sensor is Patrick Duong: Sending the voltage of the current data and also we have to convert it back to the current by on using the current sense of the data says we know what is the range of the current sensor. So, from there we can convert it by using the very simple map very simple math. Patrick Duong: Mathematical to convert from the voting of the current sensor to the actual current Patrick Duong: And this what go inside of the for the Texan flow at beginning like the I say everything the 40 texts of the 40 texts and plot is going to be received the current temperature and the rotate Patrick Duong: And they're going to be checking off and the curve and they're going to be checking off that they then they have to measure all that value in the safety rank for the battery and in here. These are we using the combat to the constant and right here, this is the Patrick Duong: This is mathematics simulating function for the for take America. So we receive a signal we tearing the signal. Patrick Duong: If the voltage of the battery higher than three basic woe is me saying that signal the digital signal out and if the voltage down to bow is going to be. And it's also happy saying the signal out there. Patrick Duong: And these are how our digital output block look like Patrick Duong: And I'm going to be doing the conclusion. David Almonte: So next slide. In conclusion, we were able to complete the design of our battery management system we completed the design of this circuit tree further system, the hardware portion the software portion and the solid word model for the package was completed. David Almonte: We were able to test the voltage and temperature and monitor the measurements in real time on the raptor Cal software. David Almonte: The very last step that we needed was literally to put the parts in the package, but due to David Almonte: That was the only thing that we did not do, but we did complete the entire design of the entire the system. Next slide please. David Almonte: And then here's a video of our actual system, the power supply is powering is supplying 12 volts to the controller, the voltage sensors connected. Oh, there's the microcontroller, excuse me, the voltage sensor is connected between the power supply and the Raptor. David Almonte: Controller and the power supplies acting like the lithium ion battery. David Almonte: The white pad was the temperature sensor and here on the monitor it displays the real time measurements of voltage current and temperature. And if you look carefully, you can see the voltage will change from one to David Almonte: Change to one when the, the voltage exceeds 3.6 volts. David Almonte: The battery pack voltage and the temperature measured are being displayed as well. You look pretty closely. David Almonte: And David Almonte: And that was the conclusion of our presentation. Thank you, guys. Are there any questions. Michael Thorburn: Okay, thank you very much. It was very interesting presentation. Michael Thorburn: We have, we do have some time for questions. Who would like to first. Just be sure to unmute your microphone before he started talking Papa K: To see this question. This is Carl Salinas. Um, first of all, it's an impressive amount of work that you guys were able to pull together. Papa K: Really impressed with the quality of your block diagrams and kind of circuit analysis, you know, system system level circuit analysis to be able to come up with essentially the operations concept of Papa K: Creating a lithium battery management system. Papa K: In your in your test program. Did you look at any like anomalous modes, you know, things like extended overcharge or, you know, this chart real potential discharge modes or anything like that thermal runaway what's there anything on the kind of anomaly side that you guys look that Patrick Duong: Actually, we Papa K: Have it Patrick Duong: In during the 19 Patrick Duong: At that moment, we are working. We I try to send in the actually not the digital output from the controller. We can send in the analog output. Patrick Duong: That moment. Patrick Duong: And the school just locked out. And then we don't have time to testing it though. In the video like we just showing them lie like this me go, let me go back to the video like is use. We just have time to so in live programming them lie to to soda user like Patrick Duong: Here and the lifeboat a be about three point say they're going to be sending out these, uh, they say in right here is a one. Papa K: Yeah yeah Patrick Duong: They say Patrick Duong: Yeah, like when you're one right there. Patrick Duong: Yeah, so that's mean is have light of both a is below to to Bolt. Bolt, we will see quote Papa K: Okay, okay. Yeah, I'd sure like to see that. Papa K: You know, as part of perhaps like a mini Monte Carlo or something like that where you get a lot of data and you can begin to predict Papa K: Battery performance. I know this is a management tool, but that can be sort of an analytical side to the tool where you can then begin to see trends and you know the potential of failure mechanisms and things like that, but the kids did a good job with that. Papa K: Okay, thank you. Michael Thorburn: Other questions. Chris Bachman: I have a Chris Bachman: Question for the team. Chris Bachman: So thanks. Thanks for the presentation. Yeah, I really used to really thorough job with the presentation. Chris Bachman: A lot of really interesting stuff. I was kind of curious. So, so let's say that the batteries. Chris Bachman: Let's say that its capacity will decrease over time, just because of aging. And so with the cooler counting. Do you have a way to update the capacity of the battery as it decreases with time so that you can, you know, improve your state of state of charge estimation Patrick Duong: Yes, I'm farm. Yeah. Like we spending the whole fall semester to working on the estimation of the day of the battery. Patrick Duong: Life. We know like a cooler pouting is the good mentors, but they also is not accurate one so we develop another software called cam and filter actually tablet computer because the curve. Patrick Duong: We'll see. Soc. Of the battery is the nonlinear curve. So we have to you attended computer that has to improve the estimation of the SOC by on using the Quran pouting and the knowing the behavior of the. We'll see. And the SOC curve. Chris Bachman: Okay, very cool. Yeah. Masood Shahverdi: Sorry if I add something. This is mass, which are ready to answer that the answers. The correct answer to the question, Dr. Batman is no Masood Shahverdi: We haven't done anything like that. What Patrick is referring to is a state of charge estimation and, you know, very accurate way of associates dimension. Masood Shahverdi: What you're referring to his battery degradation and how we can take it into account in the system. Poor Dad, we need to actually have Masood Shahverdi: A state of health model or any other degradation model involved. But the way that they implemented that is going to be just model of a state of health and then from there. Masood Shahverdi: We can have battery regurgitation, and we can include it in calm and filter way of estimation that Patrick is talking about. So the short answer to your question is no. But we have something in place that we can add that later. Chris Bachman: totally makes sense. Like, thanks. Chris Bachman: Thanks Massoud I wonder I Masood Shahverdi: Actually don't know much Chris Bachman: I know I do more on the materials. Masood Shahverdi: And stuff. Chris Bachman: But I'd wonder if they'd ever Chris Bachman: You could ever see Chris Bachman: You know, you look at kind of the cutoff voltage and you'd say like, Oh, this time we counted this many cool loans, we hit the cutoff voltage Chris Bachman: And that's, you know, 95% of what we got last time. And so you could kind of like update update it based on the kind of the amount of charge, you can get between your Masood Shahverdi: Cut off windows. Chris Bachman: I wonder if Chris Bachman: Like that's ever done. Masood Shahverdi: Chris, I mentioned many times that you and I need to talk and who've worked on this stuff. We have a lot of things in common. At some point we'll do this stuff, but Masood Shahverdi: What you're saying is doable but more accurate way is Masood Shahverdi: Modeling it's it's relying on a lot of tests on lithium ion battery, because you know everything related to aging and degradation needs a lot of time for testing. If you want to have accurate model, but what you are referring to is Masood Shahverdi: Absolutely possible that give us at least a simple way of having some sort of understanding how it will be degraded. But if you want to go further and have accurate model, there are some model out there that you can mathematically tell how much of Masood Shahverdi: Capacity, you are losing you know based on the throughput, our that you put or extract from the Vatican. Masood Shahverdi: Does Chris Bachman: That make sense my one other quick question. I noticed your guys's Chris Bachman: battery voltage is for like two volts. Chris Bachman: I was wondering if was that that actually like the kind of the, the voltage of the battery or my was I reading it wrong. It seems low for like a typical lithium ion battery. Maybe they weren't lithium ion batteries in the test. Oh. Patrick Duong: That's one for one sale only at beginning, we want to do in the sale equality later to make sure when we talked on the chart of battery or the sale eco so so the the one we show in under the supplier and a lie. We protect at Excel, not the whole battery. Patrick Duong: You know, Chris Bachman: Teams, even though for a typical lithium ion battery. So, but maybe you guys have a have a little like non traditional lithium ion battery chemistry at least Chris Bachman: Typically, the ones I know like in your phone or like between three and maybe 4.2 or something. But, uh, but they make different chemistries with lower lower voltages. So you guys probably have some maybe like a little bit different one. Patrick Duong: Actually oh yeah I got lucky a Western like FB you have when we begin that project. Patrick Duong: Stuff that's already like using the lead on battery from the ICO car and these very high battery. But like we have another team is a khaki Patrick Duong: Battery characteristic Patrick Duong: But right by combining our to the budget of our team. We don't have enough money to you know to working on that equal Kelly's on battery. So we go into another. The solution like we we buy very smart. Patrick Duong: Sale battery with Patrick Duong: Nice same a 123 using in the Patrick Duong: Eco cab, but the Patrick Duong: Very small one. So we can be working on that one. Patrick Duong: So that's why you see the vote, a very small Patrick Duong: But Masood Shahverdi: Patrick if you pay attention to backgrounds question he's referring to, to vote being lost at sea level, and he is absolutely right. Masood Shahverdi: To is the minimum cost of voltage at sale right and he is saying the nominal voltage should be around 3.4 3.5, something like that. And, you know, that is stuff so that to vote that you were referring to was a quarter footage. Correct. Chris Bachman: Okay. Oh. Chris Bachman: Yes, I am. Michael Thorburn: Fired. The time for this presentation. I hate to cut off a good discussion. Chris Bachman: Right. I'm going Michael Thorburn: Let me think. Michael Thorburn: The team though for a very interesting presentation. Michael Thorburn: Obviously, one Michael Thorburn: For the audience was quite interested in many aspects of it. So congratulations. Michael Thorburn: Our next presentation. Is Michael Thorburn: A gun zone disable or program. Masood Shahverdi: To we have the team. Michael Thorburn: Here, we need to have somebody from the team, take us Jesus Ramirez: We are here. Michael Thorburn: Please take over the screen. Michael Thorburn: You can share the screen and drive the charts. Jesus Ramirez: Ahead, Robert. Michael Thorburn: I mean, ask everybody to remember that we've got a quarterback survey. So by all means, fill out your thoughts about the last presentation and keep the survey in mind as you're watching this next presentation. We appreciate your feedback. Michael Thorburn: And without further delay, let me welcome the gun zone disable or team. Jesus Ramirez: Can you hear me. Michael Thorburn: I can hear you fine. I don't see any charts though yet. Michael Thorburn: There. Okay, perfect. Jesus Ramirez: Yeah, we can see a man Roberto Ramos: Nice. Roberto Ramos: Let me go. Hassin Monroy: Everyone minimises seen when your way and today we are presenting a project doesn't disabled here with me on my colleagues. Hassin Monroy: Team members Ramirez, she was a Red Dawn Dawn provide Ramos MSL or faculty advisor for this project is Dr. Avery and our liaison is Professor Johnson department of criminal logistics. Hassin Monroy: Next slide please. Hassin Monroy: Come back on stamina work. Hassin Monroy: In recent years has been a growing number of mass shootings and the air 15 has been Hassin Monroy: Used in over half of the shootings and that's the main reason why we decided to work with this rifle, it's likely Hassin Monroy: First, Damon and work reaches wanted to design a mechanism to prevent the fire, on fire for firing in a predefined gun free zone. Hassin Monroy: And in order to do that we just send it to work with them. Go Global Positioning System GPS locator firearm was a firearm was located and found to be in a gun free zone. Basically the service drives the linkage mechanism which they most though talking piece to block the trigger. Please. Hassin Monroy: And I'm going to be going over the system requirements. Hassin Monroy: So as you can see here there's six system requirements which are the battery life adaptability, a cost the GPS and safety as well as actually greater efficiency. Hassin Monroy: From the battery life, we have planned it to be six months life standby and nine plus hours in operation for the nine volt battery that we used. However, Hassin Monroy: We were not able to do this to the crane condemning them, they will perform that testing the adaptability. Hassin Monroy: It was minimal. We want it to be minimal retrofitting and we were actually able to fit all the components into the air 15 stock and lower receiver. Hassin Monroy: The cost. We had a limit of $300 that we wanted to stay by and we ended up spending less than $200 in GPS. We just wanted it to be able to detect the are working operational area. Hassin Monroy: specific areas such as a house or a building in a compliant with that. And that was successful for the safety, the firearm. We just wanted it to be made inoperable when we try to break it down attempt writer to assemble it somehow. Hassin Monroy: We were not able to get done with that testing as well pandemic and the actuator efficiency we want it to the driving mechanism we just wanted to choose that in order to it so Hassin Monroy: It was well within the confinements of the nine volt power supply, and that was successful as well. Hassin Monroy: Next slide please. Hassin Monroy: So up ahead of them. This is a mirror, as my colleague is going to talk about the electrical engineering design process. Jesus Ramirez: Hello Hello everybody, my name is your marriage, and I was in charge of the electrical design process for designing ideas for electrical components. Jesus Ramirez: The mind. The first time. The first idea was to control several motor to drive the linkage mechanisms. The second design idea was to design and implement a GPS system that will locate location of the rifles. Next slide. Jesus Ramirez: Now we're going to move over to the Global Positioning System or also known as GPs. Jesus Ramirez: For using GPS. It says it offers a more controlled approach for keeping track of the location of any firearm compared to other signals which is why Jesus Ramirez: The hell are you seeing the image represents the desired restricted loan, a black square represents a buffer. Jesus Ramirez: Buffer Zone is used since many locations like school during either building have other shapes. Therefore, the buffer zone will help shape the zone better also Jesus Ramirez: By you know buffer zone. It will allow the system to maximize the safety of that particular zone since firearm movies. This activated before has entered, read, read our next Jesus Ramirez: Now let's move into the electrical components these electrical components were needed to satisfy the GPS system. Jesus Ramirez: The first component. I want to speak about is the ultimate GPS receiver. Jesus Ramirez: To add a fruit, also a GPS receiver was selected to the offer the GPS model that gets precise as sensitive coordinate tracking Jesus Ramirez: Also the module can track up to 22 satellites on 66 different channels this important since this GPS receiver has the capacity to have up to 10 location updates a second Jesus Ramirez: Next, the smartphone breadboard the smartphone read board is a modified or do you not know for GPs based projects. Next, I will be speaking about the sparkling incentive for Jesus Ramirez: The next tennis elective from the antenna board was called GPS ceramic chip mention the specs when include free range up to 1.575 gigahertz. And it has a max gain of 3.4 DB at its peak and has an efficiency of 85% at its peak. Next slide. Jesus Ramirez: On it was a 20 kilogram digital server. The server more was selected to drive the leakage mechanism. The last two components where the nine volt battery to supply power to the breadboard and the LCD screen, which was used only for testing purposes. Next slide. Jesus Ramirez: Image seen, we can see all the electrical components that up, ready for testing. Jesus Ramirez: Next slide. Jesus Ramirez: Next we will go into the system floater once the system starts up the system will block the mechanism automatically Jesus Ramirez: Then the location will be found. If it's not, then it'll patient will be found a location can be found in the system will become locked Jesus Ramirez: If the location is within a restricted in the firearm will remain block. If the location is not within a restricted zone in the fire arm will be unblocked Jesus Ramirez: The system will proceed to continuously check the firearms location specific time during this time over selected in order to help provide a more power to improve the power efficiency. Next slide. Jesus Ramirez: Next, we'll dive into the code. First, we have a rating the rating system for different predefined free zones or different zones were face to have different test different testing locations. Jesus Ramirez: Station will be focusing on zone for which happens to be my house next Jesus Ramirez: Next we will look into capturing GPS coordinates the lines of code presented the lines of code present how the program will receive the coordinates from the GPS receiver, let's pay attention to line three of the code, which will which says char see as you got a GPS thought read Jesus Ramirez: This line of code will get the coordinates from the GPS receiver and the remainder of the code will confirm that the coordinates have been received. Next slide. Jesus Ramirez: Next we will look into how the program is able to know that the GPS receiver is working properly. The fourth line of code has is open parentheses GPS fix, close parentheses. This code will ask after one second GPS is fixed being mean that the GPS is connected to three or more settled. Jesus Ramirez: This is important sense in order to get accurate readings, the GPS needs to be connected to at least be settled. Jesus Ramirez: Next slide please. Jesus Ramirez: Next we will look at the if L statements in this part of the code the predefined corn is found in the race will be compared to the corners capture from the GPS receiver. If the locations match, then the system will activate the fire. Jesus Ramirez: Next, Jesus Ramirez: Next we will see the testing results. These testing results were in when you set the results were obtained when testing inside of my house. We can see clearly. Jesus Ramirez: That the system is able to ripen if we see the image, we are first see that from the serial monitor for me. Fino shows gun in April and then it changes to them. Jesus Ramirez: A little bit more, we see something called things don't change. This is very important because if GPS has moved at any given moment, it might be confused about. If it happens to be in a in a restrictive zoning. Jesus Ramirez: So then I applied his own change replication, where it's going to change in a checkup to four different times to make sure that the corners risks are actually disabled. As you can see on the phone lines that it keeps saying Jesus Ramirez: Next we will see the test results obtain when outside of my house from images, we can see that the system is able to firearms, but it's particularly Jesus Ramirez: Testing. I went ahead and step outside of my house a little park where I live. And once I got to the park, I realized that LCD show going in April, showing that I was outside of the Jesus Ramirez: Next slide. Jesus Ramirez: Next, James are Fernando will be discussing them chemical engineering design process. Jamess iPhone: Okay. So good afternoon, um, in order for the first part of this design process research was done into the laws. Jamess iPhone: And there were laws and regulations which prevented us from actually creating a function firearm state law requires us to seek approval from the California Department of Justice. Jamess iPhone: And Cal State LA regulations prevented us from manufacturing and possessing a firearm on campus. Jamess iPhone: There were options of airsoft guns and other replicas. However, the internal components were a lot different from an actual rifle. Jamess iPhone: Therefore, the solution was to create a custom AR 15 lower receiver which would suppress features that we wouldn't need such as the magazine. Well, but would still function as a good model for our prototype. Jamess iPhone: So research was also done into. Next slide. Jamess iPhone: Into other types of existing models such as the army tix IP one SMART GUN, which is the first commercial Smart Gun and this one work by using an electrical magnetic to block the firing pin. Jamess iPhone: A required the user to use a watch, which communicated through radio frequency identification to the gun in order to allow it to fire, not a similar concept would not work with this design. However, since radio identification will not be used, we would be using GPS. Jamess iPhone: Research into previous senior design teams project was also done Jamess iPhone: And they utilize the trigger lock mechanism through the use of a solenoid that was required to be on Jamess iPhone: Their search repeated to power consumption issues as well as a 10 second delay to block the trigger 10 seconds is a lot of time there for one of the objectives behind this project was to kind of speed that up. Jamess iPhone: The idea of a linkage mechanism did follow through into this us design into the final concept that was thought up Jamess iPhone: Next slide. Jamess iPhone: So there are three major components of an AR 15 for this project that was going to have the stock the grip and the lower receiver. Jamess iPhone: The Woodstock in the grip are hollow pieces on a rifle, which helped address the concern of storage and how much space. We had to work with the lower receiver is a part of a rifle to houses the trigger components and would be used also house the blocking mechanism itself. Jamess iPhone: Next slide. Jamess iPhone: So there were various different design ideas throughout the course of this project. Jamess iPhone: Oh, as you can see the green arrows will actually point to where the edits or the obstructions will be placed the first idea was a firing pin obstruction. Jamess iPhone: Which would require a steel rod to stop the firing pin from moving another ideal would be a barrel blockage, which would stop a bullet from being loaded into the barrel. Jamess iPhone: And then there was disabling the trigger, which by stopping the trigger. What actually prevent the gun itself from firing. Jamess iPhone: Next, Jamess iPhone: So these different design ideas or different factors that were dumped into for each one. And each of these factors were awarded to point B two, one through five or five would be Jamess iPhone: The most problems most difficulty and one would be the simplest solution that had the less model issues that would arise later on. Jamess iPhone: One of these would be size constraints, the amount of space, we'd have to work with in order to achieve the goal. Jamess iPhone: Oh, another thing would be manufacturer ability. As previously stated size constraints, the amount of space where to work with was a problem. So how difficult would it be to manufacture these really, really small pieces. Jamess iPhone: And as well as the complexity behind each design solution. The cost cost of implementing the overall design custom manufacturing Jamess iPhone: But the difficulty issues would be the difficulty in the actual placement and the issues that would come from it, such as the firing pin which is a moving component in a rifle. Jamess iPhone: As opposed to the trigger the trigger for the most part is stationary it rotates about a point Jamess iPhone: But in comparison to the firing pin. It's a lot easier to stop that motion then stop the firing pins movement, the barrel. Jamess iPhone: Is a pressure bearing part which means there's a lot of safety concerns for the user themselves if something were to go wrong messing with the barrel, it could cause damage to the user. Jamess iPhone: The adaptability. There are many different kinds of firearms of previous models focused on a handgun, we were focusing on a rifle all these weapons are different and each carries its own set of challenges for stopping certain components. Jamess iPhone: The idea behind this project was to adapt the mechanism itself into other kinds of firearms with as little modifications as possible. Jamess iPhone: Here, the total values are tallied up and at the end of barrel blockage seem to be the idea that would carry the most difficulty and implementing and disabling the trigger was the easiest. The simplest solution, therefore, that was the idea we chose to go forward with Jamess iPhone: So now I will pass it on to hussien who will go over the final design overview Hassin Monroy: So for the final design overview. Ultimately, we decided to look at the mechanism of the trigger and we see that when applying force going to trigger it causes Hassin Monroy: induces a pivot around the pin and then window, preventing the pivot basically disables the trigger on this engage triggers pool when engage triggers block successfully. Hassin Monroy: Next slide please. Hassin Monroy: As you can see here that when the system is engaged the lattice will backfire that linkage several activating the linkage mechanism, which was black them they're blocking mechanism and when it is disengaged on the Hassin Monroy: The trigger is successfully allowed to pivot around the next slide please. Hassin Monroy: So this is some of the stuff we printed out and it's just a prototype and you can see the locations here. When does that is moved into one in this one doesn't he doesn't he Hassin Monroy: Say please Hassin Monroy: So here is the stock and this was our custom in there was made to Hassin Monroy: Hold all the electrical components which were measured in Hassin Monroy: So you can see here is also included the survival as well as the linkage mechanism everything together and for the linkage mechanism, we were able to see that the all the links and angles are known and the angle of rotation was we were able to Hassin Monroy: Come up with that as we had planned to do some physical testing with the model, but for any what to do. So endemic I'm Hassin Monroy: So housing. Hassin Monroy: Houses a breadboard. The battery. The controller antenna system. The survival linkage excited Hassin Monroy: And then Robert is going to talk a little more about the risk analysis. Michael Thorburn: Alright, you're muted. Roberto Ramos: Sorry. One of the last things were different project was risk analysis based on the problems we saw with original designs and we also listed out the mitigation approach you would take to solving problems. Roberto Ramos: The table below takes into account some possible risks that impact the risk. We have our design and the probability of each risk happening. Roberto Ramos: So we assigned a number for each risk and impact between one and five or five would be the greatest or it will be a Roberto Ramos: bigger impact and bigger probability of the things happening. So a lower number will be better. Roberto Ramos: The first thing we considered was battery depletion the battery dying would have been would have had a large impact our design. So he gave it a five. The probability of a dying was also pretty high. So we got to take that into account when thinking of the mitigation approach. Roberto Ramos: The mitigation approaches for this was to disable the gun. Once the system right that the battery was in every day. Roberto Ramos: The second thing was the removal of the mechanism. Roberto Ramos: Removing a disabling mechanism. What I made the firearm into regular operating environment. The probably it was happening was high, as was the impact Roberto Ramos: Our mitigation approach would have been to make the signaling mechanism integral part of the trigger system mean that are moving at what a render. They got an offer. Roberto Ramos: The third was damaged from the environment that guns are used by people, regardless of the water and since the system consisted of electrical components we all like some water again and damages components. It was also given a high impact high probability number sense Roberto Ramos: Like I said, it would have been like to proceed with our part and harsh weather. So to mitigate this, we decided to all electrical components would be housed in the top of the Bible and enclosed environment. Roberto Ramos: The last risk factor was electromagnetic interference. We didn't want somebody jamming the GPS system when they were shook his own which wouldn't matter design useless. So the mitigating approach was to complete disable the gun when there's no GPS signal. Roberto Ramos: So this next slide shows the table. Roberto Ramos: had read evaluate the risk factors. After applying are mitigating approaches. Roberto Ramos: Keep in mind that many of these things weren't unfortunately limited because we weren't able to meet up and work on together. Roberto Ramos: So for Barry depletion, there was still a high probability of the value dying. Roberto Ramos: But the impact. What are the negligible. As you can see on the column on the far right for mechanism removal Roberto Ramos: We didn't get around to make the process properly. Therefore, it's still a high probability and still has a high impact. Roberto Ramos: The difficulty from implementing this came from the fact that retrofitting existing designs meant meant that all we're doing was adding extra parts to the already tried and tested mechanism. Roberto Ramos: So, the system would still have been susceptible to environmental damage, but we thought that in closing it the way we did would have helped mitigate some of the probability and impact. Roberto Ramos: And finally, disabling the gun owners don't GPS signal, but it will eliminate the risk of someone temporary with the GPS. Roberto Ramos: So this next slide shows the risk analysis, but it gives us a visual representation of the table on the left, just in itself, the risk and assign shapes, where the solid shapes are the original Roberto Ramos: Impacts and probabilities before litigation and the outline shapes are after they were adjusted as you can see region only all of the risks were in the red, meaning that they were pretty substantial and very likely Roberto Ramos: After applying our mitigate are many factors are mitigating approached it as you can see the impact and probably decreased for nearly all of them except for the mechanism on the Roberto Ramos: Next one wants the conclusion. Roberto Ramos: In conclusion, we were able to write code that most of them have a server motor really, we were able to make a GPS system that obtained the coordinates and specify whether or not you're in a gun free zone or zone where it was OK to use a gun. Roberto Ramos: We designed the prototype prototype of a lower receiver and that the same mechanism and it was manufactured using 3D printing. And in addition to that, we also designed to stop which enclosing lexical performance. Roberto Ramos: One last thing is acknowledgments would like to thank Dr. Third one for helping but he guidance to steal for letting us use Roberto Ramos: Dr. Avery for advice and guidance Manny from fire ants reference library for letting us Roberto Ramos: mess around with guns and we also want to thank you students Helen for 3D printing is our system Allah for helping us solve works and and Jesus Ramirez: In our personally want to thank Alex Maxwell for helping me out with the coding and testing. Jesus Ramirez: Working on this rigorous code by myself was very scary and Alex Maxwell really came in as my classmate, help me out with the coding Roberto Ramos: Questions. Michael Thorburn: Okay, thank you. Michael Thorburn: It was a good presentation. I appreciate Michael Thorburn: The work. Michael Thorburn: I wanted that question. Did you did you talk about the antenna system. Michael Thorburn: In the presentation, I Jesus Ramirez: I just spoke about the GPS receiver. More specifically, Michael Thorburn: Right. Did you talk about, or did you look at any different antenna configurations to support the GPS receiver. Are you using a built in antenna on Jesus Ramirez: I tried both I first tried doing a built in antenna, but I found that the DB and frequency range of those attended this they were reduced Jesus Ramirez: Compared to an exterior one. And since I was worried that all the compartments. We're going to be in close into the stock I want ahead to use a little bit more powerful antenna. Jesus Ramirez: Higher gain higher frequency and a higher efficiency. So I went ahead and use an experience and instead of the onboarding Michael Thorburn: And how is that going to fit inside the Michael Thorburn: System or the rifle. Jesus Ramirez: We go back to the can we put a stop Roberto Jesus Ramirez: Right here will be see the green the green happens to be the education receiver. No, sorry, the green happens to be the board, but you know Jesus Ramirez: And the to light blue at the city to breadboard back to back to each other. So one side of the breadboard. It's gonna have the core attached to it. And on the other side of the breadboard. We're going to have in China and the GPS receiver attached to that size. Jesus Ramirez: And green is going to hold it together. Michael Thorburn: Okay, thank you very much. Michael Thorburn: Are there other questions. We have time for some questions. Papa K: Yeah, this is this is Carl, so it's quite an elegant solution. But did you guys. Um, did you have any trouble with the GPS footprint. I guess I'm trying to understand is how accurate. Papa K: How accurate. Can you establish a boundary and Papa K: If someone's sitting on the edge of the boundary. What is the software do does it have some sort of logic that determines whether you're interacting, or did you guys test that out at all. Jesus Ramirez: Yes, so can go to the buffer zone and go to the buffer summer button. Jesus Ramirez: So in order for to maximize the accuracy of the coordinates. I went ahead and pick the top left corner of the buffer zone in the bottom corner. Jesus Ramirez: Of the buffer zone and I use those coordinates to help me. Jesus Ramirez: Pretty much have these buffer zone. And when we talk about the GPS receiver. There are some limitations, depending on how accurate the readings to be Jesus Ramirez: And that really honestly depends on how expensive that you care receiver is compared to others because the one that I Jesus Ramirez: Chose wasn't too expensive, but the qualities of it was fixed operation that I talked about the code that is able to let us know when we're testing. It has an onboard LED lights. Jesus Ramirez: That allows us to know if the GPS receiver is actually able to connect the satellites or not. And we know that by the blinking. If it believes every five seconds, then we know that the GPS receiver. Jesus Ramirez: Be collecting data from the satellites. But if one of five seconds per BLEEP. We know that the GPS receiver is struggling to capture these coordinates. Jesus Ramirez: And that was a big benefits of why because I started off with an energy pitch receiver, but he thinks receiver would heat up a lot. It had a lot of heating issues. Papa K: Yeah, there's a lot of processing your process and the data from three satellites your French and a lot of numbers there. Jesus Ramirez: Yeah, so we went ahead. So I went ahead and investigated a little bit more expensive GPS receiver that helps with the heating issues and at the same time offers that that fix Jesus Ramirez: On the board to allow me to know if the if the program is the one that so wrong or if it's the actual component, the electronic components that having a hard time Jesus Ramirez: Train the 14th from family. Papa K: Okay, I'm just out of curiosity, did you guys do any kind of Papa K: Weight analysis or mass analysis to estimate how much additional mass you were going to be adding to the to the AR platform. Roberto Ramos: And Roberto Ramos: We figured that it so we'll be adding we preternatural negligible since people tend to slap on the accessories to the rifles. Yeah. Roberto Ramos: This wouldn't add too much weight to it. Papa K: Okay, but Roberto Ramos: Overall, we didn't really consider that Papa K: Yeah. Yeah. Well, I mean I wouldn't think so, but it's one of those optimization things I guess if Papa K: Someone's really Papa K: If someone's really, you know, trying to balance this rifle or something. They might Papa K: You know, might have an issue with it and then Papa K: The six months battery life. Did you look at your rechargeable battery or was this just sort of use the battery wants to dump it Jesus Ramirez: Well on you. That was the next phase of the project was down the battery issue with you to the mic. We were limited Jesus Ramirez: For the exams right now the way the project is operating is simply plug in a battery once been taken off. And I know that's not feasible, but due to the concern that attack in the whole world. We have our time is limited to figure out Papa K: Yeah. Well, I guess I would I would give that since since since kind of Papa K: Since kind of have a gun is kind of more of a sporting thing for most people, you know, Papa K: The idea that they'd have to replace batteries every so often probably isn't that big a deal. Papa K: It might be different if it was kind of a law enforcement thing or some other you know official capacity, where the, where the person had to have it at the ready. But, you know, given that Papa K: Most of the this type of guy knows us for sporting. You know, I wouldn't, wouldn't they get a big issue on just a couple of things. One is Papa K: And it might just be my display here, but I couldn't see page numbers and that sort of complicated me trying to follow the story and right questions. And then the other is just as a kind of a future. Papa K: Every time you you present code and try to talk to us real tough on the audience. So I know that you had to go through it to try to show us what you did, but next time you might want to think of creating Papa K: More of a graphic more of a pictogram to demonstrate what the code is doing. And then, you know, kind of referenced the code very sparsely because trying to find a file follow code, even if it's just a few lines is sometimes a little difficult for for audience members. Jesus Ramirez: Okay, thank you for that. Papa K: Good good good report, though. I like the work you did. Thank you. Michael Thorburn: We have a few minutes for another question. Chris Bachman: Oh, Oh, Terrence Sarmiento: Oh, I have a question. It is really good that you guys mentioned the project from last year's Expo. I was there in attendance myself and it was Terrence Sarmiento: Definitely concerned on the about the 10 second buffer for the going to be disabled. I'm, I'm not sure if you guys mentioned an improvement of that buffer delay. If you guys dropped it down to like how many seconds. So can you provide information about that. Jesus Ramirez: Yeah, we were able to cut it down a few seconds. It wasn't much to be honest with you. We were able to only put down a few seconds. Terrence Sarmiento: Okay. All right. Yeah. Cuz I'm on on the slide where it has the, I think the electric our design process, um, Terrence Sarmiento: It was mentioned that you guys have used specific time intervals, but I didn't see any numbers. So I was just curious like I'm Terrence Sarmiento: Like how do you guys improve the 10 second buffer delay because I'm 10 seconds, like in the previous Expo. It was pretty long, um, you know, a gunman can earn per good. I've already shoot a person before the gun was disabled so Terrence Sarmiento: It was just my Terrence Sarmiento: Like question like, how did you guys improve that number. Jesus Ramirez: Yeah, the GPS receiver offers. It's called the hotspot which connects the coordinates quicker and Jesus Ramirez: This receiver has his hotspot. Jesus Ramirez: Part of its design, which allows us to get your coordinates and liquidity so quicker, we get the coordinates that quick and we could disable you could did exactly the firearm. Terrence Sarmiento: See, got it. Thank you. Michael Thorburn: Okay about wraps up time thank you team for a very interesting presentation and thanks to the audience for the interesting questions. Michael Thorburn: Our next project is the optimal design and control of a hybrid PV and battery system. Michael Thorburn: If the teams and Michael Thorburn: Ready, you might start Michael Thorburn: Pulling pulling yourselves together. If somebody can share their screen to drive the charts and we'll get the presentation started in about two minutes. Michael Thorburn: To add any pressure to the next team, but we've got 61 people in the audience. At this point, this is a this is our maximum for the event so far, any one time. Michael Thorburn: It must be anticipating a great presentation. Michael Thorburn: Please remember audience members that we have a call tricks survey I have posted that up on Michael Thorburn: The chat room, I'll do that again right now. Michael Thorburn: So that once you have listened to a presentation. Michael Thorburn: It doesn't take just a few minutes to, you can do it on your cell phone. It's just a few multiple choice point and click type questions we value the feedback. The students and I both value the feedback. Michael Thorburn: Okay, if the team is ready to go, it's about that time. So without further delay the optimal design control of a hybrid PV and battery system. Michael Thorburn: Go ahead. Hi, sir, just signed in, by the way. Jose Morales: Alright, so, good afternoon, everyone. My name is Mr. Alice. I'm the team leader for optimal design and control hybrid PBN battery system. Jose Morales: So today we're going to be presenting our overall project. And what we were able to accomplished. And if you guys have any questions feel free to ask at the end. Jose Morales: So let's get started with the table of contents. Jose Morales: So the introduction and background isn't be presented by myself and then I'll be handing it over to my partner my team member for Jarman RCN who will be presenting a battery sizing and DPM Jose Morales: Also known as dynamic programming model. And furthermore, after him, we will be presenting our control system. Jose Morales: Called propose hybrid control which will be presented by Kodak Jose Morales: And it consists of two layers. The top layer and the lower layer. So the top layer. As you can see, when we presented by coding as well and the top layer forecasting isn't be Jose Morales: Presented by accident or as for the lower layer for a control system hasn't been presented by Jose area. Jose Morales: And that would include the lower lower layer forecasting and the simulation results of the whole control system and then the end to wrap things up isn't a come back to me where I would be presenting the conclusion. Jose Morales: So let's get started. Jose Morales: So I'm gonna give you guys a little bit of a background of our project. So we are working on the building the call the credits Innovation Center located in downtown LA and the art district so that building was picked to me. Jose Morales: One of the requirements of California is and if you go by 2030 So California is energy goal is to have 50% of the commercial buildings be retrofitted for net zero energy Jose Morales: So for the specific building we're working on the energy demand is divided into two parts, one being the building and the other being the electric vehicle charging stations. Jose Morales: So to give you guys more of an introduction. So the main goal of this project was to design an optimal control algorithm for the liquids Innovation Center. As you can see in the right Jose Morales: So some of the problems space with this project was a lot consumption. So from here on out to 2030. It's a big Jose Morales: time span. So we know that a lot of consumption is going to be changing depending on the different scenarios going on in the building. Jose Morales: So also another partner we faced was predicting the Lord and sunny radiance. So predicting a load and sunny radiance is pretty much Jose Morales: Impossible, but yet again. You got to find a way to get somewhat similar to what the accurate result may be Jose Morales: And lastly, the last problem is the electric vehicles. So, as we know, electric vehicles are going to gain more popularity as we're all going to more events environmental friendly use across the nation. So we don't know by how much the electric vehicle may may change. Jose Morales: So we're hearing me presenting the deliverables for this project. So some of the liberals included a agenda minutes and minutes also as project updates, which were weekly also we are Jose Morales: So you can see we had our preliminary design review what and to which where we presented our are just concepts that we wouldn't be using for this project. Jose Morales: Some of them we discarded and some of them we kept and as you can also we have our final design view which were presenting today also offer our deliverables. We had forecasting data. So we had a lot of forecasting to do based on load and sunny radiance. Jose Morales: Some fun include a different models, some dynamic programming model, also known as DPM severe vector machine, also known as as VM Otter regression, also known as the Rima and PSE AMP G which are optimization tools. Jose Morales: Based on what we got from our forecasting and we were able to find our battery size. We then had to contact manufacturers and receive a quote just to present it to the customer and be able to have a plan where we have everything set. So just for them to purchase. Jose Morales: So the price of the project is pretty much organized. As you can see in the picture on your screen. As you can see, I'm the team lead Jose Morales: And then our team advisor was Dr. Raj and the project was broken down into three main components won't be in forecasting other being battery optimize Jose Morales: And lastly, being the control system, also known as proposed hybrid control. So as you can see, each team member at least work was one of those three main components throughout the whole year. Jose Morales: So now we have our work schedule. So our word soldier was broken down in in the three semesters. So, one being the the fall semester. So that's where we mainly focus on Jose Morales: Theories and concept that we may apply to help forecast sunny radians and Jose Morales: Load. And then also, we were able to determine which one's work and which one didn't that Jose Morales: Didn't. So based on that, we were able to move on to our winter break, which is our winter break was mainly where we focus still on a little bit of research, but mainly started to develop or our project overall Jose Morales: And then the spring semester we were able to complete it. And as you can see some of the tasks we were able to contact manufacturers to see how much would it cost, despite the current situation going on right now. Jose Morales: So as mentioned that the project organizations. So the way the project was broken down was in three main components one being as a forecasting, which included estimating the Lord and sizing the PV Jose Morales: So base of that we were, we want. We want to know how much would be the Lord and the PV because we're trying to expand every three years, starting from 20 2020 2020 2026 and two to 2030 Jose Morales: Next base of that our information collected will move on to a size another battery. So the sizes Barry, we would use all the information we got from the load and sizing of the PV and implement that to our dynamic programming model, also known as the PM. Jose Morales: And then lastly, the last step is our control system will will control the battery itself, which consists of top layer and the lower layer. Jose Morales: So what do we know for this project so far. Well, in the beginning. So in the beginning we were we were provided with the information of the load NPV for the year 2030 Jose Morales: This was provided to us by the grad students that we were working with hand in hand, we, we both had different tasks, our team and the grad students, but the whole over at the end we will combine the whole project and present to the customer. Jose Morales: Now would be president to my team member could German, Austrian who will be presenting a little bit more about the battery sizing and dynamic programming model we use Kajair Minaseian: So I'm going to talk about a little bit about the battery sizing as we know it's a big part of our project because it ties down back to the actual PV system in order for us to achieve the net zero energy go by 2030 Kajair Minaseian: Um, firstly, the, you have to find the optimal battery size and we were able to achieve the goal by finding the optimal battery size and optimum cost of it as well. Kajair Minaseian: We determine the cost and the battery using a dynamic programming model, and also that program optimizes the cost to based on the lowest cost that we got we determined that battery size. Next slide. Kajair Minaseian: Some of the inputs that we put into the TPM are as follows. Kajair Minaseian: As far as the batteries section of the inputs. It's the depth of this charge the unit price of the battery dollar per kilowatt also the open circuit voltage and resistance of the charge and the discharge. Kajair Minaseian: We also included the number of battery cells and series. Kajair Minaseian: Another input that we use is the PV and the load profile of a whole year within 30 minute intervals. Also, the energy demand and the Kajair Minaseian: Energy and the demand rate throughout the day because la WP has different rates throughout the day because in the morning. It starts off slow and then towards the noon and afternoon. That's where he peaks and then slows down again. Kajair Minaseian: based off those parameters were able to get a 720 kilowatt hour battery size for a year 2030 Kajair Minaseian: So now I'm going to talk about a little bit about the TPM DPM is a dynamic programming model. As I mentioned earlier, that will be used to find a battery and the cost Kajair Minaseian: It's a we use it to find the optimal control problem in a software that Kajair Minaseian: We're able to optimize the cost of the battery. Kajair Minaseian: Next slide. Somehow, this is a overall view of the harder DPM works. Kajair Minaseian: Base of the parameters. I mentioned earlier, we input it into the program and we run the program and he starts calculating costs of each path. And after that, he picks the lowest cost for each path and then it displays you to results at the end. Kajair Minaseian: Next slide. Kajair Minaseian: DPM is also a very efficient way to perform recursive computations, meaning it takes into consideration of the solution of the smaller problems of the instances as a whole to give you the solution. Kajair Minaseian: As far as our cost function goes there are three different areas that we counted, one of them being the energy costs. Kajair Minaseian: Which is you buying energy from the grid or selling it back to it using the PV system that we have, which, in that case would be negative. Kajair Minaseian: Also, the second part is the man cost. The man cost we calculate it based on the peak power consumption of a month in three intervals. Kajair Minaseian: Also we included the battery cost, which includes the battery degradation, because as, as we know, as time lifespan goes on of the battery, it starts deteriorating. Also, we include the operation and maintenance costs in those as well to get a total cost of the battery. Kajair Minaseian: With all those in mind these are the results that we got Kajair Minaseian: The cost of installing the battery is about $183,000 the operation is about $47,000 and in total we save about hundred $94,000 Kajair Minaseian: On the right side, as we can see on the graph. It's a normalized savings graph versus the battery capacity. As you can see as a battery capacity goes on. Kajair Minaseian: We save more and more and for our project the peak is about seven 720 kilowatt per hour. That's the maximum savings that we get, and after that it starts going down. Kajair Minaseian: Next, I'll be passing it on to my teammate coding to explain the Purple's old hierarchical control. Co Dang: Good afternoon, everyone. My name is coating and I'll be talking about what proposed Erica controls about next. Co Dang: So for proposal, I can control is a two liter control system that controls the berry performance. So in our top layer, the top level optimize the free of charge or usoc based on the long term forecasting of the PV and adult generation for one week. Co Dang: And then the low level will optimize the battery based on the short term forecasting of the PV and adult for one week. Co Dang: So as you can see here we have our flow chart for the top layer and the lower layer which is our full charge for for both layer. Co Dang: So in the top layer. The it will start by prompting the user to define the channel parameters for the upper and the lower layer of the system. Co Dang: And then the sub ledger will import the pH is low and Barry data and then send it to s VM in which ESPN will forecast cheetah and allow for one week after that TPM will run for one week. It will give the SOC for every 30 minutes Co Dang: And then it would check to see if the minutes have passed or not. If not, they will loop back to the top layer forecasting and if yes, then it will proceed to the lower there. Co Dang: And then I'll be heading over to my partner XL show will be talking about the top there for Cashman Axel: So, Axel: What we need to forecast, as stated, we will be implemented that people might get power the building. That being said, there will be time intervals in which the energy generated by the building by the micro grid will not be enough to meet the low demand of the building. Axel: At which point we need to answer the question of is it cheaper to pull energy from the battery or should we use energy from the grid to answer this question, we need to know how long these energy deficit will last as well as the total energy needed in order to make up for this deficit. Axel: So our program is using two main algorithms to forecast support vector machine and auto regressive integrating moving average, otherwise known as as VM and a remote respectively for short term forecasting, we are using Axel: to forecast the load. The load of the low demand of our building the input parameters are simply time low demand temperature and humidity. Axel: Or Rima is used to forecast the energy generated for the micro grid, we are using a remote to forecast global horizon irradiance otherwise known as g h i Axel: We are doing this because GH is directly directly proportional to the amount of energy that our micro grid will be able to produce the input parameters for this are simply G H AI and time. Axel: For long term forecasting. We're actually using SEM for both G H AI and load of the building. As you can see in the next two graphs. Axel: We are we are displaying the long term forecasting of both load and future the graphs are fairly accurate within the degree within some degree of accuracy, though, it's pretty obvious that they can be heavily improved on Axel: That is the purpose of the second layer of Axel: Of the forecasting system, which uses smaller time intervals up to five minutes in order to further explain these short time intervals. I'm going to pass it on to my partner who's a rare. Jose Rea: So good afternoon everyone. I'll be going over the forecasting for the lower layer and also the simulation results of the overall proposed haiku control. Jose Rea: So first I'm starting with the flow chart of how the lower layer works in the THC system. Jose Rea: The purpose of the lower layers to determine the output for the battery power control signal. I'm essentially how this this will work. Is it first uses a state of charge results attained from the top layer. Jose Rea: And you know interpolate that every of every 30 minutes to one minute time intervals on it. It's then going to perform a weighted moving average or a Rima Jose Rea: To find the demand and the JJ or this sudden ratings in this case for the next five minutes. As I mentioned, I'm finally, it will use the VPN to find the battery power of every Monday for the next five minutes and we'll do that in a continuous loop. Jose Rea: Next I'll move on to the lower layer for cussing so Jose Rea: I'll be going over two different types of forecasting methods we tested for the lower layer. And as I saw also mentioned earlier. Jose Rea: On the lower layers also used to help and get better, more get better and more accurate predictions on the two methods we use to see which one would give us better results are remind moving average. So here we wanted to forecast a short term of the sunny ratings for the year 2013 Jose Rea: The graph shows the peak of have one day of the year of the year to display on Jose Rea: To display the accuracy of each method. So, here the mean average error using a remote was around 39 Jose Rea: While the mean average are using moving average was around 220 so the results for remarks significantly better than moving average. So I'll move on to the short term load. Jose Rea: Here, we also need to predict the low consumption for the for the year 2030 cents. Jose Rea: Okay, we're also planning the two different methods for the load would get an amine average around 800 are using remote and for the Jose Rea: And the moving average. It was around 250, the results are not as low as we would have wanted them to be. But overall the moving average is better for forecast to forecast the load. And in general, the remote is better to Jose Rea: To forecast. It's sunny regions. So next, I'll be going over the simulation results. Jose Rea: Of the proposed hard to control. So here in the PhD or propose higher good control. We can test any month of the year 2030 since Jose Rea: 2013 is our intended goal, but here we elected to to test the second week of March for both the top and lower layers. And just to be consistent in the program so on in the graph, it displays the optimum state of charge. Jose Rea: In the top there. So as you can see in the graph on it shows seven on seven peaks of each day for the second week of March, and in the end results. Jose Rea: It shows that the PhD can save around 20% in electricity costs. So now I'll be moving on to the lower layer on results from from the PhD. Jose Rea: So here the lower layers simulating the battery power control signal. And as I mentioned, the last slide. This graph shows the final output of the Jose Rea: Pepsi for the second week of March for the year 2013 and the final step is to, to use the signal and send it to the battery so that it could try to achieve optimum operation and the system uses Jose Rea: The proposed hard to control the facility like electricity bill for 2030 with range around 50,000 as opposed to the 770 3000 if the P THC was not applied or, yeah. So with that being said, How pass it over to our lead consumers to wrap things up. Jose Morales: Thank you. Jose. So to wrap things up. So for our overall project, we were able to complete the analysis system. So we were able to test and run simulations completely Jose Morales: We were also able to determine that SPF work better for our top layer and our remote work better for our lower layer, but those who been set for each specifically the PC would actually help control the battery in real time and based on also the rest of simulations we were also Jose Morales: Able to determine the total cost of the system. So we estimated to be 2.2 million Jose Morales: 2.2 million coming mostly from the PV and battery sizes just coming based on Andre 3000 Jose Morales: Over. I want to thank our advisor, Dr. Raj and our Jose Morales: Are my team members and also I want to take the grad students who were out also helping us throughout the process of this project. Jose Morales: Now, do you guys have any questions. Michael Thorburn: Okay, thank you. Team. Um, we do have, we've got Michael Thorburn: Time for questions. So who would like to first be sure and unmute yourself. ray: So Professor farmer and I just want to get everybody. Around of applause. ray: Thank you very much. ray: Jose X Alcazar CO and the other second was a very nice presentation and ray: I just had one question wasn't wasn't co going to present a chart on the optimization stuff like a genetic algorithm and stuff. ray: Or did I misinterpret that Jose Morales: Would call you want to explain it. Which one ray: I thought in the agenda that you were, you were going to talk about the optimization ray: And wasn't a small little bullet ray: Way back and maybe charge ray: For Jose Rea: No, I think that's just, that's part of the part of our agenda that we, the research on Jose Rea: The work we did throughout the semester we didn't explain it here presentation. Yeah. ray: Okay, thank you. Michael Thorburn: Did you guys turn to page 10 please Michael Thorburn: Could you explain this chart to me. Michael Thorburn: It looks like you have more PV capability than you have demand is that, am I reading that right Kajair Minaseian: It looks slightly a little bit over oversized but Kajair Minaseian: I don't know why the graph came out to be like that. But in reality, it's, it's not really oversized by that much. Michael Thorburn: And it looks almost like you have almost twice as much TV capabilities. You have no man. Michael Thorburn: Well, not quite, but okay. Arash Jamehbozorg: I think it's Arash Jamehbozorg: I think it's the problem is that during the night. You don't have any PV. So you have a lot of zeros. Arash Jamehbozorg: So then the peaks and valleys that when the summit obvious exactly call. The problem is that during the night, you don't have anything for during the day, you need to kind of overshoot and compensate for Michael Thorburn: Okay. Michael Thorburn: Fair enough. ray: So you need to some salmon ass this whole chart. Arash Jamehbozorg: Yeah, we calculate the summer they are exactly equal then we make them equal because we assume the building is net zero Okay. Michael Thorburn: Okay. Michael Thorburn: Are there other questions. Papa K: Oh yeah, I had one quick one. I guess in looking at, I Papa K: Can conclusion this page. Papa K: Um, I guess. The basic question is Papa K: That that battery cost seems unusually low Papa K: I'm given that you're going to be low leveling, you know, an entire facility. Papa K: With you know with growth potential and things like that. I mean, we saw one presentation yesterday where the, where the Ilan musk system was close to a million dollars. So I'm kind of wondering where you got your numbers from for the battery technology. Kajair Minaseian: The battery. Kajair Minaseian: VPN. Kajair Minaseian: And Kajair Minaseian: That's the installation of battery in Kajair Minaseian: operation and maintenance is included, isn't there well as well. Papa K: Progress. Now, that's not the purchase of the battery. Axel: For my understanding, we basically like Tried. Tried to not include the actual cost of the battery into our optimization, mainly because we know that the cost of the battery is going to be a constant value that you know we don't really have much control over. Kajair Minaseian: Yeah, and also the price of the battery is 250 kilowatt dollars, dollars per kilowatt and it's a 720 kilowatt system. And we're also assuming the prices will go down by 2030 as well. Papa K: Okay, yeah. I mean, I agree with that. It would be nice. Just so I think that battery costs. Papa K: You know, are going to be Papa K: Sliding down as we convert you know over to Papa K: To a more, you know, electrical power, you know, transportation grid, but I guess I would have liked to seen your predicts on that battery cost. Papa K: As you as you kind of get down the road and begin to get into maintaining the system and maybe even change the batteries out those batteries don't last forever. Right. Kajair Minaseian: Yeah, they yeah they degrade after like 1516 years and also the battery causes included in battery sizing right now the right now as we speak. The battery prices are roughly about $400 per kilowatt hour Kajair Minaseian: In the lifetime is also considered in the cost as well too. Yeah, like you said earlier, you know, by the time we reached 2030 the prices will go down to around two. Yeah. Papa K: That would be a real interesting question to kind of download around it. I mean, I know you guys are done with your project here but Papa K: When you hand this off. It might be worth, you know, writing that down as a question to be answered for the future, because I think that's how you're going to sell the system, you're going to sell it, not on the efficiency of electrical power, but you're going to sell it on dollars. Kajair Minaseian: Yeah, pretty much. Papa K: On a good project, like the work you did. Papa K: Thank you. Michael Thorburn: Other questions. Chris Bachman: Quick question for the team. So I'm actually curious. So did you guys investigate the cost of electricity for the credits facility and like what Chris Bachman: What's you know how much does it cost for them to buy electricity and depend on the time of us, you know, how, how are they, how are they, how are they charge for electricity as it is right now. Kajair Minaseian: Yeah we did consider it it's it's within three years. Also, the one other thing is special about the building is Kajair Minaseian: It's la WP owned. They don't necessarily paid a bill, but we did include the LA WP rates because the race do vary throughout the day. It starts off from cheap and then it starts going up and up and towards a night. It's really cheap. Kajair Minaseian: But the this building itself assesses la WP own and they showcase all the new technologies and all the, you know, cost efficient stuff that they showcase they want to showcase this project as well to the other clients in the world. Chris Bachman: Thank you. Yeah, I'm curious to one quick follow up. And so, so what the size of the battery. So why is it, why is it Chris Bachman: Why are you not, why is the optimal here I guess is what I'm kind of wondering is this, because this is where you kind of cheat achieve net net zero Chris Bachman: Or are you getting. Are you a little bit bigger than that zero and it's helping you know by at, you know, by energy when it's cheap and then go use it from the battery when it's a Kajair Minaseian: Oh, no. The this graph is just for. It's just a sizing of the battery itself. How it, it shows the optimal size of the battery. No, not including can bring it to the grid. Chris Bachman: Okay, so it's no it's not it's not connected to the grid, but it must have some interplay. I would assume with the time of pricing right like that would that would affect because this having a battery or not, would affect if you're buying electricity or not. I assume at certain times, right. Kajair Minaseian: Yeah. Also, Kajair Minaseian: Because though since the batteries larger to it's less energy and more power but the installation cost is more as well when when the size of the battery goes up as well. Chris Bachman: Gotcha. That's what kind of that's keeping you from getting bigger. Is this still installation costs. Chris Bachman: Yeah. Hi. Thank you, Tim. Yeah. Really cool charts and like cool different work that you guys did on the project. Michael Thorburn: Okay, if there are no more questions got just a few minutes before our next presentation, um, let me think. The Michael Thorburn: The optimal design and control of a hybrid PV system team and their advisor think the audience for participating. Michael Thorburn: And let me remind the audience that we've got called trick surveys for you to fill out to provide some feedback to the team and to me about the program. Okay, our next presentation will start in Michael Thorburn: Well, Michael Thorburn: Approximately seven minutes or so. Michael Thorburn: This will be the low speed crash test system. Michael Thorburn: As soon as you get your whole team here while we're, we've got just a minute or so, but we're about ready to go. Jorge Majano: So you said nobody else is trying to get in right now because, uh, our last team members messaging as saying he's a try. Still trying to get in. Bryan Rodriguez: My name is a rainy Forests. Michael Thorburn: See, and maybe is he trying to get in a different meeting. Bryan Rodriguez: Is. Let's see. I Michael Thorburn: Don't see him on Michael Thorburn: Get 38 people in the room, but we've had as many as 65 today earlier so Michael Thorburn: Send me the Michael Thorburn: Link Jorge Majano: I just sent it to him on. I just had a little message. Okay. Michael Thorburn: Okay. Michael Thorburn: Okay, somebody on the team can take over the screen. Yes. Excellent. Michael Thorburn: So welcome everybody to Expo. This is the final presentation for Tuesday Cinco de Mayo. Michael Thorburn: We've got Michael Thorburn: A full slate of presentations Wednesday through Friday from 2pm until 6pm every day. Michael Thorburn: We've had we've had a great participation. I'm sure the next presentation will be equally as interesting to hear about. I do welcome. Michael Thorburn: Everybody's comments. We've got a call track survey, you have the links to it. I'll post the link again in Michael Thorburn: The, the chat room so that if you can't seem to find it. You can then find it. I encourage you to take a moment and fill out a survey at the end of the meeting your opinions. They do matter, they'll be good feedback to the students and good feedback to me. Michael Thorburn: Okay, without them any further delay, here's the, the development of the low nitric oxide natural gas Bernard team. Ethan Balancio: Hi everyone this is team 70 our project is a continuation of the development of alone locks natural gas burner. Ethan Balancio: Our advisor is Professor Jeffrey center. The project is sponsored by sempra energy. The members of this team or myself. Ethan Valencia George Madonna Brian Rodriguez and Renee florists Ethan Balancio: First, I'm going to go over the background. Ethan Balancio: Question processes have been art and will be for the near future, the prime generator of energy in our civilization. Ethan Balancio: This energy allows us to produce heat through the ignition of feeling there. The processes must be managed well for the sake of the environment and the sustainability of civilization. Ethan Balancio: Our project deals with combustion of a hydrocarbon fuel methane and using a cooking burner. Ethan Balancio: From a general conversion equation that involves Aaron methane ideal products are produced from this chemical reaction. Ethan Balancio: Carbon dioxide, water vapor oxygen and nitrogen. However, that is not the case question has consequences in the form of pollutants such as carbon monoxide and nitrogen oxides, also known as Knox. Ethan Balancio: High levels of knocks pollution create environmental and health hazards, which can lead to acid rain smart permission and respiratory unless it's by minimizing knocks emissions health and environmental hazards will be reduced to understand knocks. I will now go over where it comes from. Ethan Balancio: Combustion involves the burning of feeling. They're the composition of Eric consists mostly of nitrogen shown in this pie chart. Ethan Balancio: Nitrogen is the diatonic molecule with strong triple bonds, when the temperature is high, there was enough energy to break this molecule. Ethan Balancio: The formation of knots produced this concept under ideal situations Knox's informed. Ethan Balancio: Realistically, high combustion temperatures increased their monarchs, which can be described by the to chemical reactions, known as other which mechanisms. Ethan Balancio: Is other which mechanism shows that nitrogen Adams at high temperatures break apart to combine with oxygen atoms, this reaction results in the production of nitrogen oxides. Ethan Balancio: Equivalence ratio is quantity used to determine whether a mixture is lean or rich, it is just described by the desired area to fuel ratio of actual air fuel ratio. Ethan Balancio: And equivalence ratio greater than one produces rich mixtures wearing an equivalence ratio of less than one produces lean mixtures. Ethan Balancio: From the graph mean mixtures are found on the left hand side of the dotted line. It shows the nitrogen oxides P get leaner mixtures while carbon monoxide steadily increases. Ethan Balancio: We don't want to run rich because as a mixture becomes more rich carbon monoxide continues to increase, which is a more deadly pollutant in comparison to nitrogen oxides. Ethan Balancio: Therefore, we must produce a lean mixture so that there will be less knocks emissions as well as minimizing as much carbon monoxide as possible. Ethan Balancio: mingle of our project is to reduce knocks. There are knocks control strategies in place by various industries, though it is not in place for cooking burners. Ethan Balancio: manufacturing industries. These chemical scrubbers the automotive industry uses catalytic converters and exhaust guests recirculation Ethan Balancio: For the purpose of our design. We will attempt exhaust gas recirculation strategy. Ethan Balancio: Class. Guess we circulation or eg ER is the process of redirecting gases brain from the burner back into the combustion chamber to be brand new again. Ethan Balancio: And the GI system, not only redirects exhaust gas is but it helps reduce the peak temperature of a flame by reducing the energy available for the reactions create more knocks Ethan Balancio: Now, George will go over the objectives. Jorge Majano: The primary goal of our project is to reduce knocks emissions by at least 50% Jorge Majano: To do this. So first step would be to seal the combustion chamber and implement a control board as applying into the system in the form of a pump. Jorge Majano: In addition to the exhaust gas will need to be redirected back into the combustion chamber through an E GR system. Finally, not summation should be measured before incorporating the HR system and after determine the effectiveness Jorge Majano: These are the key characteristics the system should have to pre-mix the methane and air going into the system. The air fuel ratio needs to be adjustable your system should recycle up to 20% exhaust gas as this can reduce emissions by up to 70% Jorge Majano: power usage should be kept low with voltage topping out at 12 volts. Jorge Majano: electronic controls you allow pumps to have variable output range. Jorge Majano: The exhaust gas being recirculated should be cool to below 50 degrees Celsius to stay within the HR pumps operating temperature and funny not should be reduced by at least 50% Jorge Majano: As mentioned previously music continuing project. And this is a prototype for the first senior design team bill. Jorge Majano: The design is your system that was driven by compressor by compressed air tank and I met a tank which allowed them to research pre-mix combustion Jorge Majano: Once the proper so geometric ratio was achieved my gas will be moved to the combustion chamber to be burn and the exhaust transferred to a gas analyzer. Jorge Majano: Our goal is to incorporate an exhaust gas through circulation system into this design. Jorge Majano: Prior to testing cancer was used to find an optimal equivalence ratio of 0.75 with a minimum 15% recirculation of exhaust gas which can be seen from this graph. Jorge Majano: The week the equivalence ratio of 0.75 can be seen in blue with the red line in the upper limit of world one our last emissions to be with a bottle access showing exhaust gas finger circulating the dotted line shows equivalence ratio crossing the upper limit at about 0.15 or 15% Jorge Majano: Next, I'll be talking about our current design. Jorge Majano: Or design, which is currently shown is meant to incorporate directly onto the existing prototype. Jorge Majano: The first goal or system is to eliminate the need for compressor. So we are introducing an air pump that brings an ambient air in its place. This will run at a specified voltage to have it mastered air fuel ratio required based on the flow and my thing going into the system. Jorge Majano: This will create a pre-mix that has an equivalence ratio of Israel. Jorge Majano: As a precaution, he will be added to the method in it that will close off if the back pressure gets too high. Jorge Majano: After conversion, the exhaust gas will be redirected to a heatsink to be cool to below 50 degrees Celsius. The Dr pump or then redirect redirect it back into the system will, it will help reduce the peak thing temperature Jorge Majano: Ban will not talk about how we will control florists throughout the system. Bryan Rodriguez: We mentioned the equivalence ratio earlier and how if we stay in the lower range of around point eight knots and carbon monoxide would be reduced. Bryan Rodriguez: The brilliant. We were given is rated at 12,000 bc you from this, we were able to obtain the mass flow rate of letting produced Bryan Rodriguez: Using the equivalence ratio, along with the missing mass flow rate we calculated the required amount of air flow rate to produce the ratio we wanted, we need to recycle 20% of the input gases, because we found it to be a value that may reduce up to 70% lacks relation Bryan Rodriguez: After this, our test turned to procuring devices that can provide these results. Were you able to find the voltage pumps that were within our flow rate ranges and we're meant to run for long periods of time. Bryan Rodriguez: Unfortunately, we had a problem with the devices that will discuss shortly. But ultimately, we were forced to scale down the system to 24% of what we originally planned for Bryan Rodriguez: We needed to calibrate or pumps to determine the actual flow rates produced so that we can integrate them into a system. Bryan Rodriguez: Will use the volumetric flow repeater called the celebs defending series 510 to accurately determine the flow rates buddies. We were working with really low flow rate. So is important and necessary to have a low flow volumetric flurry of you. Bryan Rodriguez: Were able to find the small tool will pump online to supply the system with a with these specifications, the pump had several characteristics that met our requirements. Bryan Rodriguez: It was advertised as a low power operating device with a full rate of up to 1.4 FM and I have the size outputs. We were looking for about a quarter inch Bryan Rodriguez: We use the volumetric flurry reader to determine the flow rates produced and we were able to reach point five FM. This is the reason we were forced to scale down another thing to notice is our devices stability diminished after a bolt. Bryan Rodriguez: The details are very easy our pump or similar today are so playful we purchased a low voltage operating pump with a determined max for real point two, four at FM they India and outlets also match what we wanted. Bryan Rodriguez: Based on recirculating around 20% of exhaust fumes we determine that such a flurry would occur between four and six volt one key difference between the E GR pump and the air supply pump is, we must take the temperature of the exhaust gases into consideration. Bryan Rodriguez: The maximum operating temperature the pump. We purchased was 50 degrees Celsius. Because of this, we needed to develop a way to reduce the exhaust gas temperature, so not burn out the pump will talk about this little element in later slides. Bryan Rodriguez: Here we are showing how the effects voltage has a mess. Will rates of the pump and on the equivalence ratio. Bryan Rodriguez: Remember, it's like a magic air fuel ratio is determined by the molecular weight of air fuel. So before return each input play a big role in the equivalence ratio. Bryan Rodriguez: First I'll explain the mass flow rate of area which is the loaded by dark circles in the graph again if we increase voltage will increase the last word up to a point where the device becomes unpredictable. Bryan Rodriguez: This point occurs at a voltage of 7.5 which we have highlighted on the graph. Though there's enough data points plotted or the equivalence ratio determine as a function of voltage apply to the air pump. Bryan Rodriguez: At the maximum for reproduced. We were able to obtain an equivalence ratio just under pointing Bryan Rodriguez: Devices will provide a certain output a flurry depending on the voltage supply to them. Bryan Rodriguez: We were required to find the method to regulate to regulate the voltage. So we could say each devices florets to match the requirements needed for an equivalence ratio of point eight Bryan Rodriguez: We search for various methods to accomplish this, including using potential mentors. Bryan Rodriguez: We found this variable resistor or they kill bugs to be the easiest to purchase and use as well as provide accurate and consistent results. Bryan Rodriguez: And we wanted with a potential reality, we wouldn't have to measure the voltage across the system. Every time he was adjusted was this. Thank you to box. We can measure once and create a table that tells us the correlation between apply and resistance and the flurry. Bryan Rodriguez: Here we show the diagram of how we implemented that they get a box as well as the full electrical do we said devices below parallel configuration so that they can get a max of Bryan Rodriguez: A 12 volt supply to them this way. There's supply pumpkin run at its maximum, and we could adjust the generic pumps power. Bryan Rodriguez: By applying the resistance in series with it. That's where the deck a box comes into play. Bryan Rodriguez: We use the keyboard coughs voltage allowed to determine the resistance, we would need to get the DR pump to a certain voltage we were able to build the wiring harness and again an operational, but the remaining step was to just calibrate the resistance to correlate it with voltage Bryan Rodriguez: Range renewal and they'll go over those thermal controls. Rene F.: So recalling that lowering peak clean temperatures lead to lower knock thermal knocks formations we designed an annular heat sink unit to the snippet take heat from the recycled exhaust gas is before allowing them to flow back into the eg er pump. Rene F.: If implemented properly cooler cooler guesses would have would have would prevent thermal damage to the pump. In addition to to improve heat absorption from the combustion of time. Rene F.: We decided to use aluminum 6061 for because of its high thermal conductivity and good machine ability. So using inefficiency equations in combination with optimization techniques we wrote a mat left script which would determine the optimal fin thickness and fin radius of a heat sink. Rene F.: These results are shown on the graph to the right, the solid blue and black lines are essentially the boundaries of our best design, design variables with the given constraints from the table to the left. Rene F.: The dimensions we seek her or essentially found between those two lines. Rene F.: We also have to know observed that the green lines the contour lines are decreasing in the left direction. So these lines represent the overall, the total Rene F.: Volume of the entire unit. So to save on material costs, we would choose a value that would lean towards the left side of the graph and our optimized solutions are displayed there as a 3.2 centimeters for the outer radius of the fame and formula me just for the fin thickness Rene F.: So on the left on the left hand side we see the blueprint for our unit for our optimize unit. Rene F.: The interior to to was expanded in efforts to add additional surface area for the for heat transfer and due to its cylindrical design manufacturing of this unit will simply require the use of La as shown on the video on the right. Rene F.: So we also performed thermal studies on the on the unit. Rene F.: We essentially assume that 5% of the top thousand BT us at a, at a time. Time length about 20 minutes were applied in in the interior of the fan in the tubular section. Rene F.: We also did a simulation with 10% of the top thousand between us and because because our operate our pump have to operate under 50 degrees Celsius. Rene F.: We had to use this conservative value to determine if if the fin would remain below this, this number. So as a video show the temperature of the fin remains relatively close to room temperature, towards the end for both the 5% and 10% Rene F.: And then we also try to simulate the the flow of the exhaust gas in our passing through the heat sink in it. Rene F.: We research that exhaust gas for natural gas was would be about 180 degrees Celsius. So we modeled our air flow going into the unit as such, which is the 453 Kelvin. Rene F.: We, we were looking at the, look, we can see from the coal plant from the left that fluid exits at about 46 to 56 degrees Celsius. So this is close to the operating temperature that eg er upon Rene F.: The cup lot on the right, simply shows the behavior of the exhaust gas in in the expanded Rene F.: And the expanded region as well as the temperature profile of a surrounding air from the natural convection and Rene F.: Another from the video on the left, we can see the fluid deceleration and rotation at the entrance which was an added benefit of our design. If we desire to maximize heat transfer before having the fluid exit the unit. Rene F.: And so for a project status items one through three were completed. However, due to the virus epidemic. We were unable to continue testing and machining of our components. Rene F.: On the right is our design setup which which doesn't include the annular heat sink and without the electrical control mountains. Rene F.: We've had for focused more on on simulation studies design improvements and considerations for next year's senior design. Rene F.: And now we'd like to thank Dr center for advising us and guiding us throughout the entire year. Dr. Pepper dinis for helping us with refining our MATLAB script code and Dr. Park for for his lectures on optimization techniques and sempra energy for sponsoring our entire project. Rene F.: Any questions. Michael Thorburn: Okay. Well, thank you very much team. An interesting Michael Thorburn: Um, we have we have all the time in the world for questions. This is the last presentation of the day so Michael Thorburn: Who wants to go first. Michael Thorburn: Let me ask Michael Thorburn: The simulations that you did what was the computational platform that you used Michael Thorburn: Were those tunnels leak or Rene F.: Those Rene F.: For the thermal simulation is that there were all done with solid works on Rene F.: thermal analysis and for Rene F.: A solid workflow. Michael Thorburn: Okay. Michael Thorburn: Questions. Chris Bachman: Oh, so I'm kind of curious. So I guess. Chris Bachman: I like I like the lot of the kinds of simulations, you did and the concept so much pretty good. Chris Bachman: So you're, you're essentially making your flame temperature colder by losing heat over here and your, your heat sink and so Chris Bachman: You know, a couple of, I guess, kind of like two questions like, Chris Bachman: Do you think there's gonna be an issue and that like when I have a burner. I'm going to be kind of upset because I have to use more fuel to heat up the same amount of few food and maybe, is there a way to, like, you know, could you maybe find a way to use that heat for something useful. Chris Bachman: Maybe not in the flame. But, you know, maybe I could have like a coffee cup warmer or something on the side of my burner having something something Chris Bachman: Yeah, I'm just trying to think, what are some ways we could use this heat Chris Bachman: And not just not just wasted into the environment. Jorge Majano: Well, I'm the we're not trying to lower the overall temperature. We're just trying to Lord peak temperature and thing is we're still we still, we still have to test it, but we should have over others are really similar. Jorge Majano: He output. But like I said, we just want to lower the temperature Chris Bachman: And what do you mean by Pete. What do you mean by by peak is it like very with in space are very and If Jorge Majano: Name itself. I'm usually like in this case it will be almost like the like the shape of a triangle coming out of the burners and at the center of the triangle will be the temperature, we want to reduce that peak temperature Chris Bachman: Gotcha. But you think it'll only have an effect on the peak and won't have a an effect everywhere in the plane. Jorge Majano: Oh, that would be something we'd have to test Bryan Rodriguez: For them, yes. Bryan Rodriguez: I don't envy. That sounds, that sounds like a hard test but it'd be really cool, really cool to see that blame him. Chris Bachman: Throughout the flame Avi Avi some cool stuff. Rene F.: Yeah, we have difficulty I was at I was looking into like seeing if we can find a thermometer that we can use for to measure the flame at different different sections of the flame. Rene F.: But some of them have to be. I think if we're working with high temperatures. Rene F.: They might there. Some have to like the ones that have the temperature range have to be used in like a vacuum environment. Rene F.: So it's, it's also like the material like we want to measure if it the high temperatures, but the materials that are available for that are are not practical in this in this design. Rene F.: But um yeah we we thought about trying to measure those at least the the flame temperature and see if there's there's significant differences. Jorge Majano: Also add to that the prototype. It wasn't picture, but the lid does have thermal couples throughout the whole day to measure the overall output. Papa K: I'm curious, at what what kind of problems or issues that you did you did you come across when you were trying to Papa K: Kind of determine what the you know the optimal, you know, fuel to Papa K: To gas mix was going to be, I mean it was just kind of trial and error. Did you do a parametric study or how did you, how did you ultimately figure it out that the mix that you were going to use was the right one. Jorge Majano: Well as data. We did through research and we also did go based off of last year senior design team. Jorge Majano: When they ran Jorge Majano: A can Tara simulation trying different mixtures and Jorge Majano: Finding like what would be the best Jorge Majano: stoking metric ratio. And like I said, as well. We did do research for that as well. Papa K: Yeah, I might have missed it. But how difficult, how difficult was that to ultimately achieve in in real life. I mean, did you had to play a play around a lot to just sort of dial it in, or was it kind of first attempt. You got it. Good. Jorge Majano: Whoa, I guess I'm they. This was in the testing phase. So we didn't actually get to see how stable the theme would be a different Jorge Majano: Equivalence ratios. It's something that we were looking into Yeah. Rene F.: There's a, there's a combustion research team that that's looking into that testing out a different equivalence ratio. And I think that the same what you're asking the flames stability. Rene F.: And so our project was gonna was basically basically going to converge with theirs, and we would add the Rene F.: AGR and see how that would affect their, their research so Papa K: It'd be a curious curious study to look at Papa K: Like burner configuration or, or, you know, Papa K: You know, the way typical gas burners look on stoves, is that the ultimate you know is that the not optimal design or should they look different to the low look more like a flame pan on the end of a rocket or, you know, Papa K: What the difference friends and I'm kind of curious question. Bryan Rodriguez: So I believe Bryan Rodriguez: There is a research team also working on a similar to this project we're mostly focused on the exhaust gas recirculation with it the rest Bryan Rodriguez: Of the team, however, working on just that testing out different configurations Yeah. Bryan Rodriguez: So, mainly our focus wasn't on that but Bryan Rodriguez: It definitely would play into account. Papa K: Yeah, and already recognize that, but it's definitely something that's got a strong a strong component to it again. Yeah. Papa K: Cool. Good work. Thank you. Rene F.: Thank you. Papa K: I like playing with fire. Sangbum S. Choi: What's one quick question. Have you tried to boil the water without all we need is your Jorge Majano: No, not yet. We're still testing. Jorge Majano: To see if we could get the stability. Other flame. I'm going Sangbum S. Choi: To reason that I'm asking is because if you just without doing the easy are it takes 10 minutes to boil the water are you using the widow eg er, it takes like 15 minutes to boil the same amount of water. Jorge Majano: Right, I'm Sangbum S. Choi: Gonna be really, you know, saving the earth in terms of knocks that's like I'm have Jorge Majano: They are thermal couples attached attached to it. So that will measure how much he output. Jorge Majano: The burners producing before attaching the ADR system and after Sangbum S. Choi: For your testing. Jorge Majano: Not with water, but Sangbum S. Choi: I mean, just using the water was the simpler, you know, example. Jorge Majano: Yes, it is part of the the testing as well. Sangbum S. Choi: Well, he was a constant it out. You do have it already. So effectiveness as a much higher than thumbs up the knocks Jorge Majano: And we still haven't gotten to that testing phase, but it is going to be part of the test itself. Sangbum S. Choi: Okay, so after you're finished. Sangbum S. Choi: Or in a product you're going to test that. And then Sangbum S. Choi: As far as well. Jorge Majano: Now, right. Sangbum S. Choi: Thank you. Jorge Majano: Thank you. I did. Michael Thorburn: Okay, um, any other questions. Chris Bachman: I got I got I got another one too. So I saw that. I saw some machining, but I never got to see the I didn't realize how big it was first Chris Bachman: I never got to see the final product. Is it is it half halfway done or you know it's it's Rene F.: We were, we were pretty much halfway to to the reduction of the outer diameter to the fans, but cutting the other you cutting like between the spacing of the fans. We didn't really get to that that portion Rene F.: And to also to drill out the interior of the the unit. So it was it was what we will at least what I learned. Rene F.: Was that it's a really long process to cut across like longitudinally of the unit. So because there's only a certain amount. You could feed in there at a time. Rene F.: And with the the automated lay that moves fairly slow it's it took some time so I mean after everything got shut down, we, we couldn't really Rene F.: Move forward with that. Chris Bachman: totally understandable. Rene F.: But Chris Bachman: You can tell your plans, just that he finished he finished it after you're done. Yeah. Michael Thorburn: Okay, other questions. Michael Thorburn: If not, um, congratulations to the team. Thank you very much for the presentation. It was very interesting. Michael Thorburn: I want to thank the audience for hanging in there with us today and to encourage all of you to come back tomorrow and every day. The rest of the week of to until Michael Thorburn: The rest of the Expo. Michael Thorburn: Don't forget to fill out your call tricks surveys and and give me a call or drop me an email. If you have any questions. Papa K: All right. Papa K: Thanks a lot. My Papa K: Concessions today. Bryan Rodriguez: Thank you. Rene F.: Thank you. Thank you. Chris Bachman: Yeah, go. I can't really Kosta Rene F.: Thank you. Bye. 