 Good afternoon and welcome to ThoughtCAST.  I'm your host Nico Arcino and I lead strategic partnerships at Kaiser Permanente. The work at Strategic Partnerships Bridges Technology and healthcare through meaningful partnerships that uniquely support Kaiser Permanente. ThoughtCAST is an initiative designed to stimulate cross industry dialogue on the topics that will define the future of healthcare and bring together thought leaders across disciplines to dialogue at the intersection of technology, business and help. Today we're exploring the future of home care. Our session will be structured in three parts. First, we'll start with a fireside chat with Jodie Lesh and doctor Steve Parodi examining the Kaiser Permanente perspective, followed by a video highlighting the home care nurse experience, then will turn to an industry roundtable dialogue including Susan Magsamen of John Hopkins, Travis Messina of Contessa Health, Tom Lee of Galileo Health. Moderated by palliative care physician BJ Miller. It is now my honor to introduce Jodie Lesh and doctor Steve Parodi of Kaiser Permanente. Jodie Lesh is senior vice president and chief transformation officer. Doctor Steve Parodi is the executive vice president of the Permanente Federation and the associate executive director of the Permanente Medical Group. Take it away, Jodie!  Thank you Nico. Doctor Parodi, you and I have spent quite a bit of time talking about care in the home and the future of care in the home. I think there's very little doubt that more care is moving into home and out of our hospitals in our clinics and other settings, and it's driven by a lot of different factors. Certainly the pandemic has accelerated movement of care into the home, but also things like consumer expectations which have changed because consumers are getting very used to receiving. More if services inside their home. You know, I was struck the other day by the fact that I had seen that in 2014 there were seven adult caregivers for every person over the age of 80 in the United States and by 2030 that's going to drop to four. So that clearly the need is there. And we've also talked a lot about what will it take to move a substantial amount of care into the home. And we've talked a lot about the need for infrastructure and support and other things like technology. And in a recent survey that I saw, they were talking about the two biggest barriers to receiving care in the home. One of 'em was adequate staffing. Something we've also talked a lot about and the other was. Was reimbursement something that we're also going to have to work on as an industry to be able to increase reimbursement for care in the home? So I thought we could start with you telling us just a little bit about yourself, your role at Kaiser, and your interest in care in the home. Yeah, it's great to be with you, Jodie and to be talking about this really paramount an important subject 'cause I think it really is part and parcel to how will be practicing and delivering care in the future. I'm an infectious disease physician by training and actually still practice and have a couple of rolls within Kaiser Permanente within the Northern California region. Have responsibility for the hospitals as well as the continuum of care and then on the national level I have responsibility for External Affairs and. And government relations when it comes to my initial interest, I have it actually goes. Doctor, my dad was actually a patient back in the day. He was a hemodialysis patient in his primary caregiver was believe it or not, my mom and they did home dialysis for 22 years and what I got to witness there was the longevity of what can be achieved. If you have good home care the average life expectancy of a dialysis patient even now is somewhere between three to four years and he lived for 22 years on dialysis and lived a good life. He was able to practice his dentistry. They were able to go on trips and of course they kept our family intact and what I also saw though was it was a one woman logistic system where literally all of the materials of the machinery, the coordination of care when it came to the social work or to the medical care was all done by mom. And I think what I'm convinced of is that it does work. It can work. But the infrastructure is going to have to be more than just what you were referencing. It can't be built on, just people alone or moms alone. So I'm so glad to be talking to you about this today and Jodie. Why don't you tell me a little bit about your role at KP and your passion for this work. So my role at Kaiser Permanente is overseeing large innovation projects and I find it so interesting. Your personal story because my interest in the home actually also stems from a personal story. My father had pancreatic cancer. About 15 years ago and my mom was also his sole caregiver and he had kind of a different experience. I think she really struggled with providing that care, and at that point when he became very sick, he had lost all contact with the health care system and my mom ran into a lot of trouble as people do when they're trying to care for people in the home and her only line of defense was 911 in the emergency room and I really saw him suffer and I saw her suffer too and. It really shows me and why I'm interested in this is that we need to be able to extend our care delivery system into the home because most people spend their time in the home and not in our facilities and we need to be able to connect to them in meaningful ways and be able to provide to them to support so that they aren't just one mom or one wife and they can really provide that care that's so necessary. So Dr. Parodi, what do you tell me what you think? Care in the home can be I know what it is today it's can be a little fragmented and can be that single mom or wife in the home. But what do you think it can be? In the future, you know, and I think when I think about Kaiser Permanente and what we've been able to do in the spaces where we have been traditionally, which is in the medical office buildings and in the hospital setting. And then you know, expanding into the continuum of care. I think we have a tremendous opportunity to be able to bring together the integration of the entire healthcare team and what didn't exist, you know, perhaps with our own individual experiences. You know that maybe predated by decades is we now have technology to be able to scale into other spaces than having to be tethered to the particular building where we practice. And So what I mean by that is that we've got the ability to measure biometrics in home and do that to scale where you have a group of individuals that are trained to be able to evaluate those pieces of information. We have the ability to video. Technology like never before. In fact, this COVID-19 pandemic has brought that to the floor where we see massive expansion throughout the Kaiser Permanente system, or being able to reach family as well as our patients and consumers. Quite frankly, when I think about what it could be now, I think it's the opportunity to look at all the spectrum of care that we provide anywhere from the chronic medical care where we really excelled. You know reducing or preventing complications from those disease processes all the way up to the acute care phase where you're in the hospital and actually replacing some of those hospital beds with care in the home. And I think it spans that entire spectrum. You know, Jodie, I was sort of touching on the idea that technology is here and I'd be interested in hearing your perspective since you are sort of expert in this field in terms of the technical and. Operational opportunities that you see for gaining a greater understanding of not only the care that we're providing, but the patient experience, and in a more holistic POV on what's going on in the home. You know, it's great question. I clearly the technology is there and you've talked about some of that technology, like the ability to do remote patient monitoring or to be able to do a video visit. You know those things are there are challenge now is first of all, how do you scale that? How do you be able to do that? For larger numbers of patients, and I think probably the greatest challenge is how do we do it in a way that creates this very unique experience for patients in their home at today. When patients receive care in the home, they're pretty disconnected from us. They might have a phone number, they might have a nurse come visit here there, but they don't have continuous access to us, and one of the things that we've seen with technology is the ability to create a more continuous communication and connection to our patients. That might come in the form of being able to provide them information so that they can care for themselves, which is critically important because we can't be there all the time and it also on the other spectrum can be there when patients get into trouble today when patients get into trouble, they have very little option other than to call 911 or drive themselves to the emergency room. If we can use technology and build operational infrastructure, we can have people get in contact with us in real time should they run into. Problems, and that's the kind of things that the technology and the operations will allow for it today that we don't have. And clearly we can build in other things like the ability to have people come into the home and also understand peoples non medical needs which are so important and it gives us a unique opportunity to get an eye on the patient and then be able to provide different types of services to them. So it really is this opportunity to. Engaged with the patient in a way that we've never done before. Technology can help us. Operational infrastructure can help us like 24/7 access, and it's just it really can transform how we how we work with our patients and how they can support themselves in the healing process. I think that's so true. You know when I think about the interface and I can just tell you from either clinical experiences that I've had or others have. Had you learn so much when you do go into the home, you know what people are eating, you know, or natural support or not exactly, and you actually really do. I like to talk about the idea of medication reconciliation. Real med-rec occurs in the home. And I can tell you how many kitchen tables where I've sat down with the patient and said, oh, you really taking this and there's a whole host of different things that you discover in addition to the social, either in equities or issues that they're dealing with. And realizing that there are other members of the care team that need to come in and help in. In some ways, you're also respecting the individual's personal responsibility if you will. Because you're on their turf as opposed to them having come to you an it really changes. The dynamic of the Relationship and so where I see this in terms of the technology allowing us rather than sort of having to go out with your own little black bag and go to the individual home, we can do this actually more effectively and more on the person's own time as opposed to the health care systems time you mentioned Steve the caregivers or the providers in the home. And I think there are really an important part of this too, because our nurses that go out in the home today. I mean they are real heroes. It's a hard job and they don't necessarily have the tools that they need to be most effective. Including, you know, access to information or access to us access to physicians when they need help, and I think a big part of the future infrastructure that we need to build our those systems, logistics systems, communication systems, documentation systems that give those providers out in the homes. All the tools that they need to be most effective. They do an incredible job today with what they have, but there's so much that we could provide to them to increase efficiency. And be able to allow them to focus more on the patient and less on how they're going to download information or or try to figure something out on their own with some work around, so I think that's an important part of this whole equation. I think that's right, and you know when I think about it on the patient perspective, being able to access us in a more seamless way, because right now, if you think about it, if you need equipment or you need an appointment or you're actually going to do a visit virtually sometimes that can involve 3, 4, 5 multiple different systems. Or if I need to call a call center that's yet another point of contact. And somehow I've gotta sort that out and keep that all you know straight. Instead, I think we again have at our fingertips the opportunity, literally, you either buy a smartphone, buy an iPad to actually make that more integrated and Seamless, at least from the patient facing point of view. They should be able to click a button or two and get what they need, as opposed to what it is right now. You know, you and I have talked a lot about logistics, and you know, we've seen a lot in other industries. How advanced logistics have really transformed. An entire business and of course everyone uses Amazon as the example, but there really is a lot to say about that. 'cause as you said, there is a lot of logistics associated with care in the home, whether it be getting people there, getting equipment there, or getting other services there patients are sort of left on their own sometimes, or they feel they are because they don't have those advanced systems where they can order things and they can track things and they can troubleshoot. So I think you and I have talked a lot about that. There's a lot that we can learn from other industries. And a lot of technology and processes that we can leverage from the work that others have done and apply that to care in the home. I think that's right. Jodie and you know when I think about Kaiser Permanente and, you know, we have deep connections actually with a lot of logistics. Companies that are out there in addition to deep connection with the supply chain. Again another thing that has been at the for these last six months in particular, and I think that there is a yearning not just on behalf of our patients or even Kaiser Permanente, but a lot of the supply chain to try to solve for this issue. And how do we more seamlessly an more efficiently get stuff into the home quicker? And actually at the speed of care, not at the speed of something else. Yes, I like that I'm going to steal that at the speed of care. I want to take that from you Dr. Parodi. You know, one of the questions that I've had for you. I mean, you've been a physician for a long time. And how do you think this changes the healing process for people? You know, so I I think that's such a deep and important question. I think for a person to be able to recover in their own space and in their own home and environment is critically important from both a mental health perspective. From an agency perspective in terms of having control over the environment. And actually I think people are less likely to become delirious, they're less likely to be confused, actually, less likely to fall again with all the right. Structure around those folks because they're in their own environment, so I think that's really key. I think in terms of doing training for whatever you might need to be doing to help your health condition, you're going to be doing it in that environment. You're not going to be doing it in a hospital room, or even in a rehab environment in the outpatient setting. I mean, it's going to be in your home, and so if something's going to be more effective, that's where it's going to be. And I'll give you just one example, Jodie. Yeah, we launched and this is now almost a four to five year old program, something called enhanced recovery after surgery, which is now spread throughout Kaiser Permanente changed all the techniques for how we were treating pain, how we're treating nutrition before and after surgery. The effects of that program were so significant that types of surgery, like total hip and knee replacements are now actually done on an outpatient basis. Rather than having a hospitalization and what that required us to do is completely switch around. You know, essentially the dynamics of how we were going to provide the care in making sure that we had the follow up on the outpatient side in the home and getting PT into the home. And what's the impact of that? The impact of it is that people have better outcomes. That's incredible for patients. I mean, having watched all of our family members, it makes me think too about, you know, as people get older and living longer, just the process of dying at home, I think has changed or living with a terminal illness and it. It also makes me think you know we talk a lot about technology infrastructure, but there's sort of operational or human factor type infrastructure, and you know, as our caregivers in the home or sort of freed up from some of the things that technology can address, they'll be free too, but will also need to learn skills of sort of dealing with people in this very human way, because the transaction will be longer and it will be more in depth, and it really makes me think about all the training. And just the you know all the different soft skills that will have to teach people in the future as they spend more time with our patients in their home, which is a tremendous opportunity for the patient and their families. When I think about my own family, if they would have had that opportunity that you're talking about rather than trying to heal in the hospital, that would have been incredible. Yeah, and I think you're speaking to something that's really important to call out here, which is that this is a new way of providing care, and so it is going to require simulation and training simulation in the sense. Of course the contact with the person to person, but also how to use the technology effectively and how you connect with folks over video. It is a little bit different than in person and so how do you do that? How do you take Cues or understand social cues via these different modalities So I think it's a good call out. You know, Jodie, one thing that that I wanted to ask you about is you know what are the broader implications just from an industry standpoint or marketplace standpoint. And we can think about that in the context of like Kaiser Permanente, and, other healthcare systems or perhaps even bigger than that. I mean, I think first of all just from a kind of a market standpoint, we're just seeing just a proliferation of startups in this space as startups do, they see the opportunities and they see the gaps and that creates great business opportunities. So we've talked a lot, you and I about those. There's a number of very interesting startups across the entire continuum of care all the way from providing hospital level care at home to providing chronic disease, urgent care in the home, on demand leveraging. all kinds of different existing resources like EMS and other types of caregivers, even including sort of community caregivers like lay caregivers like Promo Torres. So it's just a proliferation of kind of interesting companies out there who see the opportunity. And we're also seeing a lot of more traditional health care companies try to build this into an ecosystem of care and I think that has tremendous implications. I think it has probably. The biggest implication I think it could have is is really addressing the issue of affordability. Affordability is a crisis. Healthcare affordability is country continues to be a crisis. Of course, Kaiser Permanente is probably moved along that spectrum further than most, but it still Healthcare is still out of reach financially for so many people and technology has been able to transform all kinds of other businesses, make services more accessible and make them more affordable. And I think that's the real promise here is that if we can get to scale. If we can leverage both care in the home on a face to face basis as well as on a virtual basis, we have this ability to shift care out of not only less convenient settings, but also very expensive setting and really bend that curve significantly to make healthcare truly affordable for people. And I think that's the greatest opportunity here with care in the home. I think that's right, and you know, we've got some. You know, early and burgeoning examples within KP, you know another one. That sort of comes to mind for me is the connected care program that we have for a behavioral mental health, which in this is even pre-COVID up to 40% of the visits had become virtual rather than in person. And we've actually gone back and surveyed those patients and been able to. Show that in fact the satisfaction rates higher than even in person office visit and the reason I mentioned in the in the context of affordability is that we do have a crisis in the country in terms of access to mental health care and just A simple lack of numbers of mental health care providers in the US. And so I think you're right in terms of thinking about how do we scale healthcare in a much more. You know, affordable but also accessible manner. I think about the other areas. I'm curious on your opinion here when you think about rural health care or areas where you don't have as much population density and you can't have the same kind of subspecialty expertise that appears to be a big opportunity and yet a challenge when you think about broadband and the other, you know, sort of just basic technical issues that the country faces. I think the sort of movement away from. Urban centers as a huge issue and I think that COVID has actually probably accelerated. A lot of movement, out of urban settings, but one of the greatest challenges as access to healthcare in rural settings. It's a challenge for both the patient and a challenge for the provider. Of course, because it's very difficult to have scale and Accessibility, so you know this ability to combine care in the home and virtual care so it just it has this great potential. I think to solve. One of the greatest problems that we've had, and you know, our rural communities, I think, are more significant sometimes than we think it's interesting you don't have to go that far out of the urban core to be in an area where there's healthcare access issues. So you know this idea of being able to come to the home maybe periodically and augment that with different ways in which we engage, communicate, and connect with our patients using technology, I think just is just a really. Area ripe for innovation and could really change care in those very challenging settings so. I think that's right, you know. And the other thing that sort of immediately comes to mind for me is that you actually don't even have to go out of an urban area to be inaccessible. You know there are folks that don't have access to transportation in. Like you said, there is a reduction in the number of people who can actually provide additional caregiving responsibilities. So you have a larger elderly population that doesn't have immediate family around because they've moved out and so. Actually being able to reach those urban areas too. I think it's great, but it's such a great point And there's so many health disparity issues to people who live in communities that are challenged economically and we see those disparities. And I know, Kaiser Permanente is really committed to eliminating those disparities and care in the home could have a dramatic impact on that. It really could. So there's just just there's so many opportunities here. It's exciting to be working on it. Yes, I'm glad to be partnered with you on it. Yeah, yeah. Doctor Parodi it is so exciting to be partnering with you on care in the home at Kaiser Permanente. It's just been an absolute joy for me. I've learned so much from you and I just wanted to thank you for joining me in this conversation. Every time we talk, I learn something new and I'm more inspired every single time we talk about care in the home. So thank you so much. Well and thank you, Jodie. I mean, I think that this is, you know, something that you and I and an A whole lot of others share a lot of hope for. And Kaiser Permanente's no better place to make this happen. It's true. Thanks a lot. Thank you. I'd like to share with you now video so you can understand a little bit more about what it's like to care for a patient in their home. This video features Isabelle Wilcox. She's a home health Hospice nurse in Southern California, working in around Victorville and Apple Valley. Isabelle is a very passionate and committed home health nurse. Kaiser and her patients are very, very fortunate to have her by their side. She's going to share with you some insight in color about providing care in peoples home and describe the rewarding nature of this type of care. Working in the home versus working, for example, in the acute setting in a hospital is quite different. It's more challenging at times and more rewarding at the same time. The reason for that is because at the hospital we have code teams we have doctors too. Order, you know, emergency medication and we have resources from ecological or you know, team resources that we don't have in the home setting, so you have to think outside the box. Patients react in different ways when you arrive at their home. Some patients are already expecting you and they're outside or they have a family member outside of their home. Like you said, you were coming between this time and that time and they already like looking at the window like you're here. I need a you thank you so much. You came. Here comes a nurse to the rescue, and some patients are more like private, more reserved, like you're here at my home, and you have to gain their trust and sometimes it takes time. Very important too, that you are non judgmental when you're going to a patients house. You have to meet their patient at their needs an understand that their environment is part of them. The future of home health is beautiful. I see nothing but positive. It's going to happen. It will be safer for the patient to be provided at care at the home setting. Better quality of care for sure. It is such a pleasure to introduce doctor BJ Miller. Dr BJ Miller is a longtime Hospice and palliative medicine physician, an educator. He's been on the faculty at his alma mater, UC SF since 2007 and he's worked in all settings of health care, including the hospital, clinics, residential facilities and even the home. BJ's career has been dedicated to moving healthcare towards a human centered approach. Led by his own experiences as a patient, BJ advocate for the roles of our senses, community and presence in designing a better ending. You may have seen his 2015 Ted talk, not whether but how which has been viewed over 11 million times. And I must tell you, I'm probably a good percentage of those 11 million people. It's so inspiring. BJ's latest project Mettlel health aims to provide personalized holistic consultations for any patient, caregiver or clinician who need help navigating the practical, emotional and existential issues that come with serious illness and disability. It is my pleasure to introduce to you doctor BJ Miller, Jodie, thank you for that introduction. We've heard from KP a little bit here from Steven and Jodie and thanks to that video we have a sense that some big big things are afoot at KP and beyond. And this is a very important space. There's a lot to talk about. Of course the the care delivery ecosystem is changing rapidly or certainly feels rapid, and this is changing the dynamics of home care, so we're also moving towards the Consumer Focus. All of these forces are going to affect outcomes of course efficiencies, and the general experience of care for everybody involved. So there's a lot to talk about. Why don't we introduce our group here? We've got couple of several different voices from several different angles to chime in, so we have Travis Messina from Contessa, health CEO Contessa Health, which provides a home hospital care we have, doctor Tom Lee, CEO of Galileo Health. Who are providing both virtual and in person care at home available 24/7 we have Susan Magsamen and founder and executive director of International Arts and mind lab, the Brain Sciences Institute at the Johns Hopkins University. So that's our crew. Why don't we jump in guys? There's a lot to discuss. I'd like to organize this a little bit and this is informal, so we can all jump in together along the way. But let's maybe start with the current state of care. Second chunk would be to move into the future state and then Lastly will end on this sort of whole idea of care. The human Endeavour of care and see if we can dive in there. 'cause of course, that is the main point of all this. So on this current state. You know, like KP and others, there are legacy players. People have been doing this a long time and then there. Of course there are a lot of startups here too. Do we question is a complementary relationship or competitive relationship? Where is the role for innovation in the form of disruption versus continuing on continuing to build what already exists? To open up, I'd like to turn to you start up guys you CEOs of the startup world, Travis and Tom. So anyone who either want to kick us off here. Yeah no. I think it's an exciting time in home care. There's a lot of new innovative entrance coming to this space and I think I'm not sure I would view it as competitive versus complementary. I think the healthcare ecosystem is so broad and it requires such partnerships that you know any type of collaborations typically going to be more effective than any single player you know? That being said, there are a lot of legacy processes and reimbursement that have hammered home care and we haven't had a lot of great. Frankly, all comes and services delivered from home care, so I think there's a huge opportunity. I think lot of innovators like Travis are building these great concepts that should offer that potential. I think I think Tom make some excellent points there and exciting to be here and talk about it today. So thank you guys for having us and I would agree and really focus on the part that when Contessa started its primary model is to operate hospital at home program. So think of a patient that comes into the health care system and they meet that criteria to be admitted to the hospital. Most typically for medical complications. So they're going to the Med surg floor instead of sending them upstairs, we identify him, we send them home and we render those Med surg like capabilities in. In the patient's home over an episode of care, and while the model is been around for a significant amount of time, Johns Hopkins is credited with inventing the model. There hasn't been that reimbursement. That's one of the primary challenges. Just as Tom noted, and without that, it's really tough to scale programs that can truly impact the patient in a setting that I think we could all agree they prefer. So looking at it through that angle or from that lens rather. You know this legacy versus innovator dynamic? It it really seems to be complementary because I think a lot of Health Systems in large providers that have more traditional models recognized the fact that to give a consumer centric experience, they have to be able to execute at scale. And ultimately that's how we view innovation and so having that sometimes it's tough to do that from within and so they look to parties like ourselves to help them accelerate that that effort. It's really interesting in the early 70s. My sister had a serious accident and needed to be at home and so in those days we use the telephone. Do you guys remember the telephone and it was really amazing? Was she had an amazing quality of care. She had a significant wound that needed to be treated that my mom treated because we lived in the country and I think rural health and tele health has been really innovative for a very long time. And now we're starting to see that happen more in urban settings. And so you know, I don't think the parameters have changed in terms of why Tele Health is so important, but that the ability to have a payer model really has been so limiting. But we see that at Johns Hopkins all the time we have some really great ways to get to patients in their homes, and yet we really can't make the model work. So I think it's really exciting to see if there's been ever a silver lining in COVID. It has been that Tele Health has now begun to look at kicking the tires on. A reimbursement model that really is important to be able to build this field. Well, does that. Does that spell guys is the limiting reagent this point? The regulatory lattice work? Is there a big shift in policy happening at the meta care level and elsewhere is that is that is that the primary focus that needs to change, or is that too simple? I think I can speak explicitly for our model in terms of hospital at home. It definitely is a regulatory issue. And obviously to do hospital level care in a scalable manner. You can't be sending nurse practicioners or physicians into the home for every visit. Otherwise you'd need an army of clinicians. And while, I would give tremendous credit to CMS and CMI and HHS for all the efforts that they've done, especially in the face of a pandemic. Understandably. So there is decades of regulations that they have to rollback. They've done a number of things. They implemented the hospital without walls waivers right as covid hit, but there's still some progress that can be made. I think it will take a little bit more time because. Patient safety has to always be at the top of mind and also with that you want to make sure that you don't allow for unnecessary utilization and so the regulations that are in place address those two issues. So while there's movement still definitely some progress that we can make on that front, I think. You know, it's sort of one of the things that comes up. I'm assuming that you know remote patient monitoring. Monitoring is a big deal. I'm assuming that serves many Masters. One is to really take just to be up to the minute on what's going on with our patients. There's data tracking there as well. Are the is a technology there in a reliable way? Is our people allowing themselves to be tracked? Are they seeking this? How is the remote patient monitoring going? I mean I can hop in a little bit, which is, you know, maybe broadly framed. You know, water all the constraints. And why is this? You know? How is innovation hard, right? So there's regulatory frameworks. Obviously there is some tech and privacy concerns, but I think ultimately you know this is really hard you're taking. You know a care model where people come to an office in its one standard unit or you go to the office and it's a standard unit in terms of operations and finance. And so you got over 50 years of legacy infrastructure, process and habits and so to reconfigure to a home based care model is a pretty radical shift, and so there are some regulatory hurdles. For sure, there's opportunities to innovate underneath that. The tech is fairly commodity, so it's really just how to use stitch the tech together thoughtfully. With patients who are all building up new habits right? If you think about the habits from the regulatory framework, the system framework, the provider framework, and the patient and caregiver and family framework. They're all not used to this type of a model of care, and certainly not the economics in operations of it. So I think those are all friction points. I don't think technology per say, is the friction point. Now I can add to that I think the technology is innovating so rapidly in terms of Biomarkers and being able to get really consistent and reliable data. But the sociology and psychology of this kind of behavioral change is really a paradigm shift. I think in some ways that's part of why this this kind of health was has not been implemented over the last 30 or 40 years in some form, behavioral change is really. Especially around healthcare. There's a lot of work with medical historians looking at this to understand, sort of what are our perceptions? And our mythologies around healthcare, and in this country in particular, we believe that health care is administered at institutions, and so we have this mindset around. What quality health care is an where you get it and who you get it from and so that flies in the face of some of the really amazing benefits around. Something like Tele health, including mobility, and access. Being at home so being more comfortable, I think there are. There are some privacy issues around that, but but they're easily surmountable when you think about things like the connect ability to the elderly or inability to be able to travel and distances. So I think one of the things that we're really going to need to grapple with, maybe even more than the technology, is this idea around. How do we think about change and what is quality healthcare and what are the benefits? And one of the challenges around that so practitioners are going to need to learn a new way. To connect via Internet or other kinds of technologies. Because it's not the same as one on one, so you know developmentally, cognitively, we are not connecting in a 3 dimensional world when we're doing what we're doing right now, but how can we create intimacy? An connectivity and a sense of trust and relationship is really going to be the hallmark of how and why this becomes successful. Susan, I think you hit it right there at the end in terms of the clinical. Are the clinicians adoption of those types of behaviors because while understanding the consumer's got a real role in this, what we've found is that patients trust their clinicians. They trust their doctor. They trust their nurses. And so when they say, hey, you can receive appropriate level of care at home, the overwhelmingly understand and listen to that caregiver. To us, it's really been our providers in our partner providers who are candidly doing something that flies in the face of everything that they've been trained to do. It was. Historically, everything I've been taught to do is to treat this patient in the hospital, and now you're asking me to send them home, but that's a radical mind shift and met radical training. Shift to right because that's not how doctors are trained absolutely, so I think that's an excellent point, and that's what we've encountered the most. Now it's so fascinating. We see it at a very interesting level and thinking about the military. So we do quite a bit of work with creative forces, which is a group the Veterans Administration, the DoD, and the National Endowment for the arts and what they have seen is that in the health care setting, appointments have gone from 30 minutes to 10 minutes. So the reality is that in order to see enough patients to within a day, patients are getting less of the physician, but. In Tele health, they're actually getting more clinical care and higher quality clinical care because they're not having to move through so rapidly. So there's even an economy of scale in how you can use multiple practitioners for multiple reasons. Within a Tele health setting, which I think is super interesting too. Yeah, I've noticed that I do some Tele health myself clinic at UCSF and now I've started this little thing called Mettle health and I'm starting to see clients in a palliative of care way online and I. And in some ways you know it feels like we get to the point more rapidly. There's a sort of built structural efficiency. I've notice our conversations move along more rapidly, not because we're cutting trimming something off, but perhaps maybe we're not as distracted. I'm not sure, but I have noticed that we are able to get to the point a little bit more quickly than I remember in the in the clinical setting. Susan I wonder, I'm fascinated by Neuroaesthetics this whole, just I feel like we could talk about that for hours. And perhaps you tell me what you think here guys, but maybe one of the things we're describing here is that this feels different. And this this perception of how it feels it feels. That seems like a really important. This is not just tele Health is not just a transmission of information per southeast. We've got to convey care, empathy, love, even all sorts of things. That is one thing in person when you can see and touch and field smell a person. But what is your work, Susan, from the neuroaesthetics POV telling you what is? What are we losing in this online platform and its eyes are other other things opening up in terms of the sort of visceral aspect of Care now that's a really interesting question. So you know, neuroaesthetics is really looking at how your body and brain changes on aesthetic experience and to what end. So you know what is possible when you really can really understand those things, and so you know when you think about the human built environment. Like a hospital or rehabilitation center or other kinds of places where you might go, there is a certain aesthetic that's expected, and there's a certain induction around space where you enter how you go through those processes. There is an ethos, and certainly you're giving those things up, but I think as you said you're almost cutting to the Chase in terms of the interaction, the relationship between the clinician and the patient, and so things like facial movements and gestures. Body language what you're setting is as a physician or clinician. How you're welcoming the person. All are types of aesthetic cues, and you know, thinking about the pauses in sentences or even the language that and linguistics that you're using, how you bring a contact concept or a topic forward. All those become part of your aesthetics as you're conducting something within Tele health. So the refinement and the complexity of that. Actually allows for the potential for more attention, more focused, better understanding of what's happening in the way that that's getting set up, even the colors that you use that your your backdrops, or what you're wearing are communicating in an aesthetic so greatly. So I think someone was talking about perception, so sensory systems in the way they work is one thing, but our perception really is based on our genetic San, our life experiences, and our conditioning so. Being able to really understand how someone's perceiving you from their point of view is enormously important when you're trying to build that kind of rapport. So what I think is from a medical education point of view, we're going to be seeing more more educational programs looking at what is that aesthetic experience between the patient and the and the clinician, and how can you really enhance that for things like compliance and connection and access and looking at things like recovery time and. Overall quality of life are hugely important for overall health outcomes. And that is something we perceive. I mean, we need to perceive our health. We need to sense it. We need to feel it and we want to have it. You know, if you if you are, if your mood or your your mood is lower your depressed or you feel like your life is does not have value, then you're not going to be interested in compliance, right? So to be able to have your clinician assess that from sort of an early stage of a call and then be able to evaluate that, think mood. Also ties to aesthetics, right? So we use a lot of art experiences and modalities to enhance that, whether it's music or dance or visual arts or writing from a Tele health point of view. But this is about helping someone really feel like their health matters, right? We want to not only be alive, we want to feel alive and those those are slightly different things. Well, that's a good maybe lead into this future state. Do we see? Do we see that technology in a way will begin to somehow condition or allow for a more 3 dimensional experience? I mean how do we? What do you guys seeing on the technology front? What could we improve as we look to the future in terms of the experience? I mean just building off of Susan's comments a bit. You know, people always get nervous about texh robots taking over healthcare, and kind of getting the humanity out. I actually think you know it will allow us to increase the humanity of care in some areas. So the technology enables so much that I think it's a pretty powerful factor. Then it allows humans to do a lot more human connectivity and things that are really important. Kind of from a human to human connection perspective, the new ones that I would say only is that there are some people that prefer the technical medical approach, and so there's always going to be a segment that says just give me this and give me that. And I only want it through the data but but I think if you really, truly designing. Healthcare, or the provider organization that's patient, centered, you kind of have to meet them where they are, so it for some. There always, maybe just give it to me in data cohort, right? Well, personalization, right? I mean in fact, that's what you're able to do. You're able to really look at what personalized medicine looks like when you have the ability to look at the human side of healthcare along with the technology and what, what? What can be brought forward? You guys know this better than I do, but it would be really interesting to think about in the next 10 years. What does technology look like? You know, are there going to be holograms that you can send it to homes? You know, I always want to be beamed to the next city, then get on an airplane like what will technology really be in 10 years? 15 years, 20 years? And is that an opportunity for greater humanity, greater empathy, greater compassion that we know, leads to greater outcomes? And on that note, how do we see the Inter digitation of this sort of online tech driven experience versus the in person experience obviously? The health system is going to evolve in a way to accommodate all of the above. Certain things are gonna need to happen in person. We seeing it. Do we have enough experience yet to see how those that transition works are there? Are there gaps people fall into? They act one way at home online and then when they're in the clinic they acted different way. I guess my question really has to do with both. Is there technology that is going to help us or smooth these transitions between in person? That sort of analog space and the digital space? Or is that to remain to be seen? Any thoughts there? I don't think that there's much more advancement necessary to have, kind of a truly revolutionary insight into that setting, because some of the clinicians that I was speaking with the other day noted the simple fact of having a Tele health visit with a patient in the home. I can sit there and ask him, hey, can you move the camera around and just let me see what's going on in the provider was just stunned by what he saw? He just said look just having that simple glimpse into their home told me so much and that I never would have known by having that visit in the hospital in my clinic. Wherever it may be, and so I don't think that there needs to be that much more advancement on the technological side, but that were there, it's just now needs to be more adoption of it so that we can realize those benefits if you will, in a way what you just described, Travis is a greater intimacy. I mean, here we are in some ways divided from each other, removed from each other. But as you just described, we have these windows into the patient or family's experience that we wouldn't otherwise have, and that can spell. A kind of intimacy and is also going to start pointing us to this social determinants of health as well. Do we do we think anything, anything to talk about there? I mean, maybe one way to focus that question is really about how do we imagine training future clinicians given these dynamics. Given these forces, we know Kaisers Just kicking off their medical school. I wonder how their curriculum will change. From your guys is perch. Are you seeing any? Would you love? Would you if you were in charge of the medical school curriculum? Do you know what you might change versus the traditional curriculum to accommodate this new experience? I would add that I think there are some ethical issues around the access into peoples homes that we really are going to need to think about. So people are letting that you in their homes. There's a vulnerability in that and you're also collecting significant amount of information that the patient may may or may not wanted you to have. You know, there's the doorknob moment for the clinician where the leaving. The patient is leaving and they say Oh, and by the way, you know I think my dog has fleas or whatever, or you know my husband abused me and just will talk to you later, right? And so you're going so So what is that? What is that limit of privacy? And how much does that information get shared? And that I think will translate into medical education. We've been doing a lot of work at Hopkins 4th year medical students with neuroaesthetics training and helping them use art observation to be able to. Be better observers an better listeners, an understanding different aspects of the same picture so that you're becoming a better observer and 3rd party were also we have an app now that when primary clinician works with someone this is primarily in mental health they will identify an image, a song, a poem that is a metaphor for that patient and the team will look at that and say, Oh, I understand what you're saying, so it's a deeper understanding of the person then symptoms. And then that work gets shared with the patient. To say, you know, we were saying this, how do you see this? So using an art experience to help deepen and understanding of someone. That's the kind of thing that I think you can do in Tele health too. And but it also ties back to training and how you're really thinking of these other things that are available. Other ways of knowing besides the DSM. So I think there's a lot of promise there, but it's very new. And it flies in the face of traditional medical education. How uphill battle is that? Susan, how hard is it going to be to convince Deans of curricula to bring in this other way of thinking? This added way of thinking this more rounded way of seeing people you know before COVID I'dve said it was it was a steep mine, a steep Hill. But you know, physicians and clinicians are on their knees. PTS di is higher among clinicians and nurses and doctors than almost any other population. First, first responders. And I think they have a need to use these tools as well and to understand, help heal themselves and so I think there's so much more. Open-ness shifting systems and to having a more human approach to health care then what happened pre COVID. And so I'm much more hopeful and I think we're seeing it all over the country and I think we're seeing in another countries especially where there is more of A. They're model that is aligned with federal policy or government policy, so I'm optimistic that we'll see more of this. I think we're seeing a lot of organizations move towards it, and meaning healthcare settings, so I feel good about it. I think medical education and the these Med schools are in a very. Interesting predicament because obviously our health care system has been greatly impacted, but obviously the education system is greatly impacted in terms of how they're appropriately educating their students. And I mean ultimately there's a vulnerability for those. Those medical schools as well in terms of if the students don't get the training that they want or desire, they're probably not going to pursue education at those institutions, and so I think they'll be forced to to adapt even more quickly than others. Because we've seen clinicians. Discussed pretty vocalally how much they support this new type of Medicine and some of our partners have big academic components, Mount Sinai, Ascension and Marshfield Clinic, and they're incorporating home care delivery into their education curriculum. So it's a unique position that they are in because they were kind of getting it from both sides. The education side as well as the health care delivery side. Yeah, fascinating. What about on the physician side? You know, Travis Tom? Are you guys seeing? What are you hearing from your clinicians? Yeah, I mean, I think a lot of what Susan Travis mentioned about the ecosystem and where you know the current models broken and there are a lot of people that are looking for a change. I think it's quite apparent. I think it's hard to shape that environment, you know. Still and then to design and execute it. So I think there's a lot of hope and desire for these models to work. But you know, you gotta work out a lot of the details. A lot of the Kinks. And so if you think about medical education. No, you know, even up until recently it's mostly been focused on the bedside manner. And then the science of care. It's very rarely talk talking about office flow or kind of interaction design through other modalities. And so as the modalities have accelerated, it used to just be the office plus a scratchy scrolling note mailed to the patient. Then it became email. Now there's video and text, and now home based care so. The modalities of care changing exponentially and you need a new methodology and a training system to understand how to interact with patients thoughtfully. So with us you know with galley we have this digital first model, and then this home based care model, and most of what we're doing is just working out the kinks. You know, there are a lot of Kinks to workout, like when patients are texting. You know, the Fidelity of the information is different. The anonymity is a little bit higher. And so you have this intimacy, but you also have this ability to. Miss shape data you know, and you're not sure how high Fidelity the data is in a virtual world. In a home care environment, at least for our physicians, are able to do what they always fantasize could be done every clinician, even though none of us have ever trained in this model. Romanticizes this homecare knocking on the door model. And and so for our clinicians to be able to do that and really start to figure out, well, geez, what happens if there is a dog? And I don't like dogs, and so there's a lot of Little Kinks to workout. But overall, I think the directional trend is very motivating for the Docs in our system. Absolutely, I think you always have the administrative or technical glitches that they encounter and pretty much everyone's been a good sport about that because they realize it's new and we're going to have to do something different. And just like. Anything else, anything else in our life that's different, you know, take some ironing out. I hate to bring it back to the first topic that we discussed in terms of the regulation, but the biggest issue that we run into is the fact that they can apply it to all of their patients, right? Because of the lack of reimbursement for some things? And how do you get him to change behavior when they can only apply it to some fraction of the panel that they have, and so they say, hey, I love it. I've I've seen the patients truly respond to this care model. But it's 5% of my patient population, or 15% of my patient population and that's its tuff, and understandably so, like how do you change your daily practices when you're only touching the subset of your patients? Are you surprised by any unintended consequences or higher hypothetically concerned about unintended consequences, whether for your patients or for your clinicians? Well, I mean, I think it was alluded to in some comments prior. I don't know if they're necessary unintended consequences, but there are new contours to the patient care environment that add new obstacles, challenges, opportunities to more thoughtfully caring for the patient so you know if you're walking into domestic abuse situation. This is not stuff that you would experience necessarily in an office based encounter, so. If you have clinicians that are focused on solving the broader problem, I don't think you have unintended consequences, but you do have unexpected new issues that you need to address, so I think that's the biggest issue. I do think that almost by definition, any innovative frontier is going to have some set of unintended consequences, and So what That really probably translates to in this context of home based care is, geez, you know we're going to try this out at home, but. Sure, all things being equal, it might be safer to be in the hospital or otherwise, and so there always is going to be a tradeoff on probabilities, and so I think as long as you're open, explicit with patients about the options and letting them kind of participate in the decision, I think you're going to mitigate the number of unintended consequences. I think two things to think about there. One is access cuts both ways, so clinicians have access to their patients at home, but patients have access to the clinicians, so you know how do you manage email and texts and the kind of bidirectional communications? And how can you know? So now you're potentially have a 24/7 relationship, and so how do you begin to think about information management and? And time management in it because it's a different kind of time management. That's one thing. And then from an administration point of view, in Healthcare there's a real facilities question. You know, how do you redesign facilities to allow for these different kinds of care models? Maybe someone doesn't need to be in the hospital. Maybe they don't need to come out to the output to come to the outpatient clinic. Or maybe there isn't so much office visit. So what happens to the physical environments that were there? And you know what does that mean for capital expenditures? And what does that mean for how you can use some resources to go towards more Tele health work. So I think there's a. There's a facilities and Resource Management question that's going to come out of this. That's super interesting. The only thing that I've had here on unintended consequences, the excitement around some of these capabilities in these models, and the desire from those to be new entrance into the market and buy that I specifically mean. Like if you take hospital at home, for instance. Like Hospital Medicine is very unique and not all people are capable of rendering that level of care. And so when you have certain providers saying hey I want to be in the hospital at home space or the sniff at home space or the palliative care space that probably can't meet the level of quality that those legacy providers are able to render their patients. I think that it creates a concern around patient safety and so it's just seeing new entrance that don't have that level of experience that's. Bit of a blessing and a curse. There's excitement for the model, which is great, but the same time. Patient safety is always paramount to everything that we do. Do you know Wendell Berry? He's an author from the South. I want to say is from Tennessee and I'm probably wrong. It might be a Louisiana, but he wrote a story about an older man who was dying and his family brought him into the hospital and they put him hooked him up to all this equipment. Family knew that that's not what he wanted, but they said, well, we can make him better. We can make him better then we can make him comfortable. Then we can help him die easily and it makes me think about Tele Health and palliative care. And you know if someone is dying, what are those ethical issues around how someone wants to die and, what's the health care facilities responsibility an what's the family's role in What's the patient's role in making those decisions? And I think you know from a palliative care point of view, this is a whole other ethical domain of thinking about you know who owns someone's health at the end, and I think this is going to be another issue that's going to come forward too. I think you're darn right about that. I'm feeling it myself and that is the pattern cares my world and the Hospice guys are there to kind of in so many ways have been doing this and making care at home work for a long time. Some of the struggles while we're on this note is really once folks are at home with Hospice. I can generally rest easy. It's turning those corners, getting them into that safely ensconced place with the systems in place with the mode of care clarified etc. Families, roles or clarified 'cause you know a lot of folks are surprised to learn that the Hospice isn't in their home with them 24 hours a day, still 23 hours a day. What's left up to the family. So I think Hospice as an institution is a lot to kind of. Teach us on this note. And as ever, I think a lot of the struggle is going to be transitions getting to that final station. We shall see. But how about guys having sort of a little shift here to cost? So in the one hand it's easy to imagine that that in home care saves money, right know bricks and mortar etc. But is that really true? I mean do we run? Is there a risk of hanging our hat for these models on cost per say on cost savings per say? What any are you guys seeing any sort of as we get into the weeds? Is it really going to be sort of ultimately cost neutral once you factor in the tech and the different roles that are required, etc. Or do you guys are you feeling this is going to end up being really a big cost savings to the system? A total cost savings to the system? No, it's a. It's a delicate topic, right? Because you're bringing in cost with care. Obviously that being said, So Contessa only contracts on a risk based arrangement with health plans, so we can't treat Medicare fee for service beneficiaries. So all of our contracts are with predominantly Medicare Advantage institutions, so we can cap the spend, and so we guarantee those savings up front. The way in which we approach it is that if you have. A high quality provider that has a truly engaged patient. The cost savings will be a factor of that and so you are able to eliminate a lot of waste that's in the system. But if you're you're kind of. Dollars focused first. That's going to have a bad outcome, and so if you can get the patient engaged in their care, that's how you get them back onto that Rd to recovery, which then leads to the savings. I might address it a little bit differently in terms of thinking about an economic analysis and what are the variables that you're looking at, so I think it depends on how you think about you. Know what the costs are to society and what the benefits are when you're able to help someone at home. So I'll give you just a couple of examples if you're working with someone at home, does that mean that their family members can go to work as opposed to bring them into the hospital? Are you able to produce different types of economic issues around transportation? You know there are primary, secondary and tertiary costs and benefits when you think about this kind of complex system, and so if it's really dollars in and dollars out, I think that's not the right way to do an economic analysis. I think you really have to look at the overarching economic value within a within a community and it depends on the age of the person. The kind of disease or disorder, whether it's physical or mental health. Whether you're working with children or adults, and so it's a complicated model to really look at from an economic view, and I think they just cut down to say we're saving money would be the wrong way to come at it. We've talked a little bit of how we bump into this sort of social determinants and social needs. What do you guys feel your responsibilities are? What is their responsibility? Is physicians to these social issues that come up? What are you guys seeing? At Galileo and contessa? Are you needing to hand off to someone else? Is there a triage moment or these social use things that you guys can tend to yourselves? Or how is that playing out for each of you? Our social care care team incorporate social workers and so it's an integral part of our care model. Because of the fact that we are in that home and we can identify those needs that are most important to helping that patient recover. That being said, we can't do everything. I mean we're trying not to boil the ocean and so we say, you know, and basically everything that we do. What is our highest and best use of our skill set? And if it's something that we can address, we do have partners that come in and can satisfy those needs specifically around like food deficiencies and things of that nature. And so it's a critical component. And if we can't. Deliver it to the standard that we think is necessary. Then we have to find the right partners that can provide that for us, and so we just act as a convener in that regard. For those type of services, but they are essential to all of our patients pretty much well. I was going to say, you know, what sort of infrastructure we focused talks a fair amount about the technology, but what other infrastructure needs? Are you finding that that come on? How do you set up the right infrastructure for home care? Beyond just the Tech? Is there anything to say about conditioning that work in a certain way? What infrastructure needs do you find you need? Well, I think the the most obvious thing is not everybody has great access to tech infrastructure, so that last mile problem for a lot of patients, particularly in rural or lower income environments, is not there. So I think that's the biggest obstacle. Once you have wiring to the rest of the ecosystem, there's still a lot of custom work, but that's a little bit more within a manageable control set. And in terms of the clinicians, if a lot of this work, maybe virtual are there. Are you guys getting the clinicians together to bond for self care and support and our do we know enough yet to see how this kind of work is affecting things like burnout among clinicians? Yes and no? I mean, I think there's pros and cons to any form factor. I think overdosed in in any environment and is probably unhealthy for us all as we speak in a virtualized conference forum, so I think finding the right balance of activities trying to get people into flow state is kind of what we always try to do. But it's hard given the nature of the job and the intensity that's required at times. But you know, if you have thoughtful operations and experienced designers that think about the patient experience as much as the provider experience, I think you can get. Certainly better than you know how it is today, and a pretty broken environment. Susan, I wonder if you can touch on on the potential here for in home care to tend to mental health specifically. Sort of psychological stressors. Again, we're going to have windows into peoples homes, things that may be sources of stress. Is there more that we can be doing for the mental health of our patients and our providers in this space? As far as we can tell so far. Yeah, I think there is a lot more that we can do related to mental health. A couple projects that I've seen that I think are really good exemplars. One is something called the unlonely project, and it's really looking at isolation and loneliness. And this is across the lifespan, so you know, you might not think that college students are lonely or folks that are working from home or lonely. But this project uses film. Oftentimes, it's folks that are creating small films on their own, or identifying films that they think. Really, I address different aspects of loneliness and isolation, and they share them. There's online Film Festival. So it brings lots of folks together. There's another. Program that's being used for called creative forces with the military and looking at mental health and well being through chorus singing also online dancing. Looking at creative writing as ways to really look at depression and anxiety and stress. So there are all kinds of really great self expressive or expressive arts that can be used to really help identify an also work through that. And then of course you know. I think the mother of all art forms for this is music. It's an instant remedy for helping folks feel better, and so we're seeing a lot of work there, and there are many studies that have been done. We just finished a study on music and serious mental illness and identified in the last 10 years over 12,000 studies looking at different aspects of mental health in music, and that's from being the player of music to being a listener of music, both live and recorded. And as well as preferential music, so there's a lot of really great things that you can do through the lens of Tele Health and mental health. I wonder how difficult it will be to integrate the modalities you describing which might fall into, you know, from traditional medical POV, auxiliary or complementary, or integrative per say. Would you imagine that we could train in home providers? Whether it's like Toms guys that Galileo or Travis is guys, that Contessa or beyond would it be a matter of? The training these guys to bring in these other modes into their work, or would you imagine we're expanding then teams to include art therapists etc. Yeah, I think it's yes and you know there's a spectrum of care and outcome, so some kinds of creative arts therapies really are clinically based and they have a clinical outcome around the integrated and complementary health models that NIH is really been standing up over the last several years as being a really important aspect of. Health and well being along with traditional therapies. But there are also arts and health or other kinds of art experiences that can be done. The lighter touch that really look to prevention an lifestyle and well being. And so I think it depends on the population and the goals of that art modality or that intervention. And so sometimes I think it can be trained within a system and that's great. You can also look at bringing in partners or thinking of some hybrid approaches to that as well. So it it I think that's an area that I think is actually an unintended consequences of this work too. Is how do you expand the services that you can provide that you might not have been able to provide in a traditional healthcare setting as you're talking? I'm realizing I'm thinking about my own experiences on this on this online version of in home care. And yes, where I'm realizing I'm getting windows into their world, but they're often seeing windows into mine and new ways, and there's something perhaps proud about the Times or whatever else that patient seems more calm, patient seem more comfortable asking me about my life often 'cause I'm sitting in my home or my cat walks by the screen or whatever else. And what might feel like mistakes or somehow unprofessional. At least in the pallet of care. A world which admittedly is a little bit more. Emotion and touchy feely based. I'm finding that I'm in a self disclosing mode one way or another more often and that that's feeling really good. Actually, I don't have to. I don't have to prop up this white coat version of doctor. I get to be a little bit more human with my patience. I don't know if that's my experience. Just 'cause of palliative care, but Travis Tom. Are you guys hearing anything from your clinicians along these lines? Is self disclosure coming up? Is there? Is there a way and encouragement for your providers to share something of their life? Absolutely. I mean, I think that type of vulnerability, and I think it's OK to use that word is necessary because that just makes that care experience with that patient that much more productive. Mission yeah, exactly, so I think it's we have seen it and I encourage it. I mean we had an old hand teams all hands team meeting yesterday where I talked about that exact thing. So noting that it's OK to have that type of. Human element to it right, yeah? Yeah. Which is lovely. Well, OK guys. I think we are about out of time. Anyone have anything else? I don't want to cut us off prematurely. Anyone else have a burning issue? They want to squeeze in here? Or anything else? Well, can I just say that to round this up in some ways? I think this last conversation. This is really about connection right? Connectivity at in all its levels, whether that's technology connection but personal connection, clinician patient connection, and I think the more we don't apologize for being vulnerable and human, but we actually use those as assets to health and healing. I think we're going in the right direction. Amen, Scott mine, so thank you. Not not only to KP and the. Those of us on the panel but also just to anyone that's working in healthcare in those caregivers for what you're doing today. So I just wanted to say thank you and we greatly appreciate it. Thank you Travis. Thank you guys. I echo that. Thank you everybody involved in this new brave world. It's it's daunting, but it's also pretty darn thrilling, too. So anyway, thank you guys for sharing with your experiences so openly. It's been a lovely conversation. Thank you now. Turn it over to Gary Waymire from Kaiser Permanente to take us through into the Q&A. Thanks BJ and thanks for moderating our panel today. We really appreciate it here. So we've had a pretty steady steam stream of questions coming in, so I think we should just get started and start asking the panelists. So the first question I have is here from Jeannie. I think I'll give this one to You. Doctor Parodi. We already deliver a lot of skilled nursing and PT and home hot and various other kind of home health into the home today. What are some of the other sort of farther reaching services? On that you see me see maybe coming into the home, and in fact what about OB for instance? So it's a great question, and you know, I really do think what we talked about earlier with the the other couple of panel discussions is that we're going to have technology that can enable a greater capabilities beyond what we do now and do it at a speed that's much faster where we can deliver care in the sort of the concept of hours rather than days when it comes to actually getting either a person into the home virtually or actually on the ground. And it's going to require different personnel to do that, and stretching the different capabilities of a given clinician. So I I think that when I think about what we do right now, what we actually put into buildings that are labeled skilled nursing facilities or hospitals, alot of that will be done in homes. And I don't think that's like in the far future. I think that is here and now and there's clearly a call across the industry across consumers and payers. To make this happen, especially with the pandemic having taken front and center this past year, I think we are on a journey to make that happen soon. That's great, thanks Doctor Parodi. I have a question here from Keith, maybe I'll give this one to you, Travis. Who and how our clinical indicators being developed that determine when a patient is really stable enough to be cared for at home? I think that's a great question from Keith as we think about it in the health systems and provider partners that we have throughout the country. I think the best way to think about it is just still relying upon the clinical judgment of that caregiver that is right there interacting with that patient, whether it be virtually or beginning with an interaction that takes place in an actual clinic or hospital setting. We rely upon those partnerships to develop sort of the protocols and clinical criteria because they know their patients best, and so we still rely on that pretty heavily as opposed to. Relying upon strict algorithms because, again, clinical judgment plays a great role in deciding what is appropriate for a patient wherever that setting, maybe. That's great, anyone having to date you want to add to that. Alright, we have a long list of questions so I have plenty to keep firing away at you. This one is from Michael. I'll give this one to you, Jodie, with all the different aspects of care in the home that we've been talking about. The different kinds of services and whatnot. How do we integrate these into a single experience for members? And that's a great question, and I know Gary You and I have done quite a bit of work together on this. I think that as we add more modalities to help people receive care, whether it's virtual or. On the ground, in the home or or even things like chat bots, we're going to have to create an end to end experience for people you know, we do run the risk that we could have all these individual things an from a patient perspective. It's just confusion and repetition an you know trying to re-explain and re-explain and it's our job to look at this as an end to end experience. And we've talked a lot about this. I know you and I Gary about creating kind of a platform that allows. Information to seamlessly move with people as they move from one venue to another, and it's also going to require that people be able to communicate with us in new and better ways because we won't get it right and people will run into problems and they'll need to be able to talk with us much more real time and in a way that you know, it's much more consumer friendly. I think the healthcare industry has put itself in a position of kind of come to us and there's one way to do it. And that's simply not going to work when there's just more and more ways in which people are engaging so well. It's wonderful that will have these new new modalities. It does present a real challenge of creating an experience for people that's intuitive, that's connected, and that engages patients very differently than we have in the past. Yeah, I agree. This next question came in from anonymous and I think I'll send this one to both Tom and Travis. Maybe Tom, you can take it first. How do you think about the balance of kind of the high touch home visit with the sort of highly efficient virtual visitor virtual healthcare? Yeah, I think we've alluded to it in the discussion, but I think the two work hand in hand, the more effective and efficient you are through the tech based systems, the more human and high intensity you can be for the human home focus systems. So I think they work pretty well in complementary with each other. But I appreciate the question Mr. Anonymous. I think I think Tom said it well and like we had discussed just a minute ago in the panel discussion. I mean, innovation is the ability to execute at scale, right? And if you rely more heavily upon the face to face interactions and you're never going to achieve scale and we're never going to be able to make this kind of the pervasive model that we, I think we all want to see come to fruition. And so I think Tom just said it extremely well in terms of relying upon that tech component to the extent that you can. As you gain that comfort, you will see less dependency on the face to face interaction. Yeah, it sounds like there's something we learn overtime really and it'll start this model or merge and become clear as we go forward. I've got a question here from Jennifer and I'm going to. Direct this one to both Susan and BJ maybe Susan you go first and I know this is right up your alley. So what can we do to enhance the human touch emotional connection when we're delivering care in the home? Great question. I think one of the things that feels like a through line through a lot of this is this ability to have agency around your own story and so being able to create that kind of communication and conversation about story and narrative is so important so we know where people are coming from. We know what's important to them. We know what matters and so I think more than anything this ability to listen. The other stories, and to be able to to remember that, and I think that can be part of this continuum of care that Jodie was speaking about with this end to end, is, you know, where is the agency and where is the storytelling and how do we continue to see that story unfold over weeks or months or even years. Great BJ, what do you think about this emotional connection? How do we enhance that? When we're in the home? Thanks for the question Jennifer. It's a It's a It's a good one. That's $1,000,000 million dollar question. I think as ever I think the idea is as a clinician as a provider that we excuse the sound here is that we have some ability to be present and you might say that that's in some ways harder when you're in the home. The work of getting to the home. Weather in person or online with the tech. In some ways these are just challenges to being present with someone. So as Susan saying. Really, the innovation here is listening and listening very well in generously and last comment there, that's always difficult. That's always our task is clinicians and doing that in someone's home navigating the distractions, but also priming our eyes and ears to different cues in different things that we wouldn't see in a clinical setting. Traditionally these can be wonderful insights into persons personality, what they care about, etc. So it's. Bing present by being present with more cues around. You know Gary just want to add that I think a lot of this is also going to come to down to how do we respond? You know one of the things that's wonderful about care in the home is we have the opportunity to see more and learn more, but then we have an obligation to do more and this is going to be very very difficult because we don't necessarily have the mechanisms to do more when we see many of these social non medical issues and we're going to have to build out the system better. You know, in the United States we don't have a robust infrastructure to deal with social issues and the healthcare industry is faced with them on a daily basis. But we're going to come face to face with them when we come into peoples homes and we're going to have to probably build more than our medical network in our medical care services to address these. And of course, there's all kinds of challenges in terms of adequate infrastructure and capacity as well as reimbursement, but I I think we're it's going to be hard to not. Address what we see. You know what I liked about BJ's comment is that you know we are sort of flipping the tables on what a classic provider patient relationship is. I mean, we need to fit into their home as opposed to them having to fit into our health care system. And you know, it's a huge demand for that. And actually I think it actually gets back to the root of what we all went into. This field for was to actually be able to be there for that person, and so there's just such a tremendous personal connection that can be made. Even if it's virtual or somebody else that's virtually examining on my behalf, incredibly meaningful compared to maybe the traditional way we practiced. Now that's good, thanks. Here's a question that came from Xena. This one is kind of the flip side of what we've just been talking about, and I think I'll direct this to Travis and Tom because you both kind of face this. I think in your business is what strategies do you employ for overcoming perceptions from facility based providers that home care based conditions are less capable. I'll go ahead and try this one first. I don't know that it's an issue of whether or not they are less capable. I think it's just whether or not it's the highest and best use of their time. And so I think that if you look at. I would say the overwhelming majority of not close to all of facility based providers do have the capabilities to stand up these types of models that we're referencing. It's just hard to do off the side of your desk and the ability to the need to invest adequately so that you have a proper program takes serious time and commitment in dollars. You know? For better or for worse, the financial component does come into the into play when making that decision, and so how do you cannibalise, for lack of a better description, that facility based business? But I think we've seen a number of instances where they've done just that over the last several decades. I think we referenced ambulatory surgery centers is a perfect example of that. They've historically relied on the inpatient setting for surgical procedures, and now you have hospital outpatient departments and surgery standards that are free standing and so they have that ability. Candidly, I think it's important for the providers that are apart of those specific systems and then naturally the patients in those communities that will, I think, accelerate the push for them to do so. I'm in a more timely manner. And the only other comments I would add is it kind of. It's hard to understand the question fully 'cause you know, I'm not sure if there's a perception or misperception about home Care. 'cause there's, you know, it's still kind of in its early days in terms of how we design it. But all I can say is if you look at the content of home care, it is as challenging if more challenging, if not more challenging than traditional institutional based Care. 'cause you don't have all the data points from a medical perspective, you've got many more social data points. And so the. The practice of Medicine in the home is much more challenging and also more fulfilling. There's a separate issue which is, do you have the right talent and the right systems in the home, and I think Travis I would agree that it's still early and premature. So if you're evaluating focus on the current outputs, I think it's it's not really kind of apples to apples. We over invested in the institutional infrastructure and under invested in the home based infrastructure. And so I think with a little bit more assistance, design and. And talent focus. I think you can get comparable if not superior outcomes in the home. Going to add one more comment you know specifically related to the strategies. I think a tactic that we have seen be successful in these efforts as the proverbial crawl walk run approach. If you go ahead and try and talk about, you're going to move a drastic percentage of the historical volume that was institutionally based to the home. There's a fear factor there. So talking about identification so that you can get the care team the administrative team comfortable with the model and then slowly progressing to more right sized balance of patients. I think that's a strategy that is typically been. Really successful for us. Doctor pro, do you have anything you want to add to that? I thought maybe you were going to say something. Yeah, the only thing I would add is there is a skill set to doing this well and so I would say actually we're just starting to test the bounds of what that needs to look like. Perhaps if you go back 100 years back to the future, maybe most of the clinicians had the skill set to be in the home, and now we're actually reversing that and saying in fact that's what we need to be doing now, but we're finding that you have to do training around this. You have to do simulation even just with the current pandemic response. We've done an put together a whole training module for all the clinicians, regardless of whether you're seeing people in the home or just doing your regular clinic visits via video that. There's a whole etiquette to it, and so having that up to speed so I would I would sort of push back on the fact that if you're working in the home that somehow you have less skills, I think if anything it's a different set of skills and probably more sophisticated like we were just hearing. Oh, then you'll be happy to hear that it's maybe more optimistic view of care in the home then what she perceives. Here's a question from Ren, Susan. I think I'll send this when your way. What are the information and knowledge needs for patients now specifically for them to be more successful with care in the home? I guess this would include their caregivers. I will throw that in as well. Well, I think this is a little bit about what we were talking about earlier that for patient to really be successful at home. It does require a level of agency and engagement on their part, and I think that that actually is part of the healing process as well. And so to really feel as if they have some control and some ability to be part of the decision making process in their own health and well being. Think that's really important, and that's a shift. I think that's definitely a shift in the way care has been delivered in the past for caregivers as well. I think the ability to be able to observe and to listen, and to document and to be able to be reliable witnesses for the folks that they're caring for is also really important. So those relationships become a bit more nuanced, and I really like BJ's term. The idea of being present and really paying attention. Because that's what's really required from the physician level, but it's also going to be required from the patient and also from the caregiver. That's great, anything to add anybody on that role of the of the patient themselves or their caregiver. You know, it's interesting. I think the roll the patient will change a lot. I think that a lot of patients feel that they haven't had the agency, and I think that when they finally do this may present its own set of challenges in terms of engagement in their own health. We even see this. On the flip side of people who are trying to keep people well and sort of positive behavior change and things like that. This is not easy. It's not easy to be part of your own healthcare and to be able to be active in that process, and so the patients themselves, I suspect, will change dramatically. The question is how will we support them in that we can train clinicians. We can't necessarily train our patients, but I think that overtime. We'll have to kind of ease them into that level of engagement that will be very, very different, so that sort of hand on the nob when they're leaving. You know, I think, will change. We wanted to change, but I don't think it's an easy change and will have to think about the role that we can play in helping helping that along. Jody, it's a little bit like the it's not flipping a switch, but it's turning the light dimmer switch right to bring it the light up it will. It will definitely take a time. I think that's a really, really good. Point OK, well since our session is being sponsored by it, I think we need to get some technology questions in here, so I've got a few stacked up for us here. I think the first one I'll just leave open to everybody is a question from Antonio. His question is, what are the kind of opportunities for really advanced technologies, be it augmented reality AI, these kinds of things in this space leave it open to anyone. I mean, I, I think there's going to be a big role for sort of predictive analytics of trying to get in front of problems when people are not in front of us and trying to be proactive in that understand where the needs are and then being able to engage without people necessarily coming to us. So this ability to understand the situations that people are in predict what might happen, intervene in an intelligent way, I think, provide just significant opportunity. Even in the in the. In the ability to reduce costs right to get in front of you. Know somebody who's at risk of hospitalization or going to the emergency room. So I could really see overtime that we really are using data in a much more sophisticated way in order to get in front of those and be able to sort of predict what might occur. Anyone else wanna weigh in on the kind of advanced technology side I can speak to the intervention side in terms of thinking about AI and using virtual reality for pain management. As example, there's some really nice models that we're seeing where, especially for patients who have chronic pain, to be able to use virtual reality for a form of attention and distraction, and I can see that being a really great tool to use here as well. Yeah, and from the AI standpoint I was just going to say that you know, it's not just the actual development of the clinical care, then it's the evaluation of a program and then predicting where you need to go next. So that's clearly already starting to happen outside of this space, and it's clearly going to need to happen here. And when I think of augmented reality, I mean, think about being able to go into home and evaluated and determine the need, a ramp or two, or what. And being able to model that out for your patient right then and there, or at least be able to come back like it would like an architect would come back and show you what the model needs to look like and do it in a much more personalized way rather than just sort of ordering the DMV equipment and sending it out. I think there's also a huge role for home monitoring. I mean, we're already seeing a lot of that. You know, understanding of somebody hasn't moved in awhile. If their patterns have changed. If they are at risk of falling, I think you know our our homes are getting smarter. Obviously, not everyone has homes that are wired in that way, but I think overtime is just becomes more ubiquitous. They'll have more and more sort of ability to use sensors in the home to understand people's nutrition. All kinds of things. I see a huge role for home sensors. There's obviously a lot already, but just a growing. Growing body of kind of evidence that that will work. I think they'll be more of it. I'll jump in with one eye. I love the potential for VR to be helpful for sort of sensory distraction. Things like that around symptom management, one other that's come up is the idea of virtual reality. For folks who are at the end of life who are trying to say goodbye to the material world, but maybe didn't get that last trip to some place had always wanted to go to or whatever it may be, and the idea that you could visit otherworldly places through Technology. I can imagine I'll be very interesting how that something like that place that I could imagine that being a wonderful experience for folks. I could also imagine that being very triggering for folks seeing all the things that they are about to leave behind at the end of life, so that one will like all these technologies are going to need to be used thoughtfully and carefully, and they're not going to be all good or all bad. A related question of that's come in, maybe Travis or Tom from you guys have some experience in this is what technologies are needed specifically for the clinicians in the field to just augment and enhance their work and ability to deliver care. I can maybe merge a little bit of the prior question in this. You know when it comes to some of the tech, I think it's still premature. The Tech is actually much more sophisticated on the consumer side and we still don't have really great use cases for VR and AR today, so I think it's going to be awhile before we have it. In the field in the home, I think there's definitely a lot of potentials. It's just so we don't even know how to choreograph work in the home still, so I think it's still going to be a physical process for quite some time. Uh, you know, I think you know my personal biases. I think for clinicians it's the same kind of thing. We we still need to kind of figure out how to involve home care providers and physicians into a coordinated body of work and. The tools that exist in a very simple office based environment are extremely crude and to think that we need more sophisticated lightweight tech, you know in in the home based environment where there's low Wi-Fi and a bunch of other challenges, I think is. Still again, a huge challenge. So when we talk about how do we kind of operationalize home care that is going to be a key component of it, whether if the physician is remote or in person, I think the demands on tech are actually much more extreme, so I think there's a lot of Design and work to be done there, but it's all possible. I mean, the great thing is the bits in the hardware, all there, it's how you design, and choreographic into provider model that. That is economically sustainable. I think Tom hit it spot on and I acknowledge that it's a bit contradictory to what I stated a minute ago in terms of the ability to scale requires of a reduction in the dependency on. In person visits, but in terms of the adoption curve and advancing that in a more timely manner, we often do reliant early on, and again our patients are hospital eligible. We're treating them in the home. The hospitalist is rounding on that patient virtually, but it often relies upon. A nurse being at the bedside for some period of time while they're rounding so that they are comfortable knowing that there is a clinician within close proximity and so. Sunset, the tools are all there, we just need to ramp the adoption curve. If you want to comfort. Well that's great thanks. We are out of time. I want to thank everybody Dr. Parodi, Jodie, Tom, Travis, Susan, BJ you were awesome today. I want to just share one quick thing I got. This came in the Q&A while we were we were on an it said this somebody asked Mark ask is this a new service? My dad passed away from Alzheimer's in 2008. This was not even an option. Then all care was delivered through the hospital and I'm assuming by that mark sounds like. This might have been a great option, possibly for his dad especially with Alzheimer's in the challenge of introducing them and into new environments and moving around, so hopefully it is a new service Mark will become as we've heard from our panelists, a bigger and more significant service and something that we can address things like Alzheimer's with in the future. So thanks again, I'm going to send it back over to Nico to wrap us up and take us out, thanks. Thanks Gary. Thank you all for coming. We hope you enjoyed the digital experience today like to thank Jody Lesh and Doctor Parodi for great dialogue as well as Isabelle Wilcox for the inspirational video of a day in her life, but also like to thank BJ Miller, Susan Magsamen and Travis Messina, Tom Lee and of course you again Gary for moderating the Q&A for us. These events take quite a bit of effort, and I'd like to acknowledge amazing team behind ThoughtCAST from Dialogue to Left Field Labs, the Office of Transformation and my team Strategic Partnerships for making this possible. Please stay in connect with your fellow colleagues on the chat application and finally we look forward to seeing you again for our next ThoughtCAST. Thank you. 