 Thank you so much professor Terrace for doing this again. We sort of ended up, how do you say, I'm not, I at least I on my end, I did not care about the production quality of our first episode. Well, I, as I said, it was my first attempt on zoom after teaching and I was in a very cramped situation and I just didn't feel comfortable. Yeah, I can, I can totally understand. And I mean, um, I'm sure just adapting to zoom in terms of delivering the depth of academies and all that stuff hasn't been easy. Like to interface with the screen after all those years of speaking to students directly hasn't been easy. I don't look forward to it in the fall, in the fall, teaching is going to be, um, online in the face. And I actually had an invitation from some colleagues in China to teach and they're using a different software. I never heard of called CLASSIN C. L. A. S. S. I. N. You've heard of it? Nope. Not, not at all. The it's better. Hmm. Hmm. But I, I guess you better get used to that because you know, like the speed at which R and D is happening in that particular domain of technology, like it is just mindblowing. Right? Absolutely. So are you saying that uh, next semester might be both online and offline? Yes. And is that, is that like the, they haven't made a decision? It's a soft call. It's going to be decided by the end of the month because you know, students have to know. But it may be that they'll just have freshmen and sophomores on campus so they can make friends and upper class, you know, online. I don't know what to do. Right, right. Okay. Okay. Well, I'm also very curious as a professor who's been in the business of teaching for so long, what are your notes on? What are your end of semester notes on adapting to this online format of teaching? Do you think it's sustainable or did you have as much fun? Well, I hope it's over within a semester. the main problem is when I teach, I like to get feedback by looking at students' faces and I can't do that online. So I, it's as if I'm lecturing blind and um, especially if you have a large class, um, then you don't have any interaction. They can raise their hand or hit, you know, chat, chat, some things. But it's not the same as if it's, you know, really live Isn't that like, um, when you said that the feedback is so important that my facial expressions when you talk to me, my body language might react. My micro reactions are so important to make sense of what you are saying for yourself. That is sort of what is super unique about the field of study that you, that you do as well. Human communication, right? Like there is bi-directional by nature, By directional, by nature, right? Right. So because when I'm recording all my videos, I do podcasts and I have a YouTube channel, but I'm just speaking to the camera. Part of the process is me having to imagine somebody who I'm speaking to when I'm speaking to the camera like this, this person who I'm explaining this to and part of my creative process is designing this person and then imagining his reactions to what I'm saying and then delivering what I'm delivering. So I think when There's an interesting lesson here, um, if I were a politician or if I was on the stage, I would rehearse everything I would say. And in that rehearsal, the process, I would anticipate you know, the audience, but to do it spontaneously as you're doing a lecture, uh, all these lectures are spontaneous. It's a totally different experience. Absolutely. If you're going to rehearse it as an actor does, you know on stage, then the audience reaction is not that important. But if you can't rehearse it, that's another story. I, um, I also wonder, because I think it's been three semesters since I took the one class with you. And I mean, that class opened up my mind to evolutionary thinking, uh, in a way that almost nothing has. And part of the reason why I did that was because the format of your class, which was a discussion group instead of a lecture, right. Uh, allowed me to almost encourage me to be like, okay, you know what? Take a shot. See what the professors think, see what the expert think. Right. I don't know if that is recreated online. Right. So like the proper encouragement to think cannot stop. Right. It's not obvious how that will happen on night. Right. It's sort of free. You know, what, why not. Right. I'm also interested as to what you're doing now that the semester's over What I'm doing now? Yes. Are you, cause I, you were talking about how you were planning on writing another book. Write another book. I'm planning for lectures. I'll give next spring, but I'm mainly reading and writing. That's what the summer is. Right. Right. And I'm assuming what you're reading and writing has to do exactly with what you teach, which is the evolution of language. That's right. So my question to you is this, why must I or anybody else for that matter? What's so interesting about the evolution of language? Why should I care? Well, what's not obvious about the evolution of language is that language is the only phenomenon that evolution has to explain. It's sort of like an Achilles' heel. Uh, all attempts at explaining language, the evolution of language have failed. And I can now with the wisdom of hindsight tell you why that's the case. But when I got into the business, I just assumed language was a simple thing. It didn't have to be broken down into different levels. Um, as I now think it has to be. And I thought, well, why not study language in a nonhuman creature like a Chimpanzee? Right? Right. So it's because this problem with not being able to define how language might have evolved is almost as old as Darwin himself. Right? Darwin comes out with the theory of natural selection. He only spoke about language, you know, as if it was a thing, right. As it was, say eye color, you know, as if as if it was your height is your one characteristic. Right, right. And I think everybody from Chomsky to other linguists and so on always spoke about language as one thing. It turns out it's really many things and each of those things have to evolve separately, I believe. So in that sense, would you say that language is like an epi phenomenon born out of many phenomenon? Does that fit the category? It's, it's a multiple phenomenon. It is.. It's generated by many simple characteristics. Right, right. And I want to ask you what those characteristics are, but just to put a nail as to how important this question has been. Um, I remember, uh, you telling us about how Alfred Wallace distanced himself from Darwin's theory of natural selection. They were the co-presenters of the theory, but Wallace had a doubt. And Wallace says, listen, I think your jobs fine enough. But you cannot explain why there is such a huge difference between the lowest of humans and the highest of animals. That's what Wallace said. Uh, first agreed with Darwin. And then 10 years later he said from the point of view of natural selection, human should only be a smaller amount more intelligent than the chimpanzee, they wouldn't have language, wouldn't have music, they won't have culture, all these other things. So he couldn't understand why we were so much more intelligent. And I think his problem is, I'll, as I hope to make clear, is that he also did not differentiate language into its components. he simply asked, well how did words evolve and not the rest of language. The problem would be much easier. But like everybody else from Darwin down to Chomsky language was just one thing. So, you know, I think there is no point carrying this conversation on without addressing what makes the composite of language. What are these parts? Because I do not know myself. Okay. I would say that at least four things had to occur before we get to language as we know it The first is non obvious. Um, chimpanzees, our closest living ancestors are mainly competitive and minimally cooperative. So the first had to be a switch from competing to co operating, right. And unless you cooperate, you can't have language. Okay. Then there had to be at least two stages that are nonverbal before words are produced by an infant. The first of those stages is an emotional bond between the infant and the mother. And this occurs during the first six months and it occurs because of a evolutionary quirk. Human infants are the most helpless primate when they're born. Their brains are only 25% of their adult volume. Chimpanzees, a brain is about 50% and similarly, the skeletal nervous system of an infant is so underdeveloped that they can't even crawl or walk until they're about six months old. That means that they have to be cradled. Now, one of the wonders of evolution is how that act of cradling actually facilitated the development of language. Because when an infant is cradled, she's held about seven inches from the mother's eyes, and that allows the mother and the infant to share gaze and and interact emotionally. So that's the first step. It also turns out that infants are exquisitely sensitive to faces, particularly their eyes and their mouth so because of cradling, which is a byproduct of our becoming bipedal, which I won't go go into now only and only humans are bipedal, uh, possibly some of our ancestors, but not chimpanzees. Uh, infants are cradled and that leads to this emotional bond between the mother and the infant. Then when the infant is about six months old, she does begin to crawl and walk and become interested in external objects. At first, it's just a diad between the mother and the infant. But that relation changes to a triadic relation between the mother and the infant and an external object. So the infant can point to an external object, can pick it up, can show it to the mother, and they engage in what's called joint attention where not only is the infant emotionally bonded to the mother in a dyadic sense, but now they share attention to external objects. That's also uniquely human. That had to evolve separately The act of pointing, The act of sharing attention to an external object. Right. And then, and only then can the mother say, well, that's a flower. That's a glass, that's a toy. And the infant in sharing attention to object can say, yes, that is a flower that is a toy. And so on. That's how you get the first word. So all of those steps from competition to cooperation. through cradling and into subjectivity, the joint attention were necessary before the first words were produced. Right. And so when you as kind of language evolve, you have to be prepared to say how all those other steps evolve. That tremendously simplifies the problem. So just to, just to try and understand, and I think, um, I mean even though I did understand these components from having read a lot of your work and having sat in a lecture with you, but this is the first time they've been presented to me like this. And let me just try and walk through them. The first one that you said is, as soon as competition, the pressure of competition changes to a pressure of cooperation. Now there is a need to interact and therefore language has a possibility of emerging, right? So like this is us thinking in survival pressure kind of a thing. The second thing that we're talking about is the fact that the human baby's helpless and therefore it needs to be near another adult and through proxy by the proxy of That, that is information being passed on in some sense, which is in some sense through eye contact and stuff And then the third step is the first contact. The first interaction that I'm having with my mother is us sharing an emotional state sort of by looking into each other's eyes, or at least you know, whatever version of that. And the fourth is that when my mother starts pointing to or referring to things or attending to things, and I look at the same thing, she is looking at this, right? This is sharing attention, right? So those are the, those are the four simplified steps as to four things that we need to explain before we begin to opine upon the evolution of language. Right? So, like you said, you ha you had the privilege of hindsight, you can look back and to developmental psychology and whatnot, make sense of this. But back in the day, back in the day, this was a highly contested issue, right? Like there was even contested. It wasn't even realized. In other words, when I started working with a chimpanzee in the early seventies and actually some other colleagues started in the sixties, everybody just thought it was just language. Hmm. Right. And they also, um, were highly influenced by Chomsky who said, the real challenge is to get nonhuman primate to produce a sentence she took for granted that they can have words, which in fact they don't, they can't have. Hmm. But can those words be combined to produce a sentence? So most people who were doing this research, were intent on demonstrating grammatical ability in a chimpanzee. Right. And so I think in the story of how this entire thing goes, um, the evolution of language and the, you know, the Academy, the, the Academic attempt of finding the answers to the question as well as what really gave birth to the evolution of, uh, of what really caused evolution of language. Um, the Skinner Chomsky conversation is very important to be put in place, right. So that we understand as to what the components of language are. What was the commentary that was happening around then? And this is the early fifties, I'm assuming Skinner Skinner comes up, wrote a book in 1957 he called it verbal behavior. And in that book he said, language could be explained by Simple conditioning. And it was Chomsky's critique of that book that really brought him into the world of fame. Right? And he, so it's impossible to explain language by conditioning. Okay. And in hindsight, I think he was only half right. He said it couldn't explain words. Um, but I, that's a different arguments for why couldn't explain sentences. I think Chomsky's criticism of Skinner with regard to sentences was absolutely correct. And that's what started his career of searching for universal grammar, uh, showing that behaviorism and conditioning could not explain, uh, sequences of words. Um, but in fact, Chomsky is famous not only for universal grammar, but he's also, he's famous for arguing that the function of language is to help us think and not to communicate. He thinks that communication is secondary and there is wrong. And I think Skinner was very prescient in arguing his definition of verbal behavior. He said verbal behavior, his behavior that has to be reinforced through another person. Hmm. So instead of saying, um, instead of just grabbing for an Apple, you say, please pass the Apple and somebody else has to pass the Apple. Right. And that introduces the distinction between a speaker and a listener and the conversational aspect of language where both can be either the speaker or the listener. And I think that's something that Chompsky completely missed. I certainly missed it when I was doing the Chimp project and only way to realize it was in hindsight. So I'm, I'm, I clearly see that there is a distinction between words and grammar as far as understanding the concept of language is concerned. And I'm only curious, this is speculative. So I mean, I don't expect you to know, maybe you do. I just, it's a speculative thought that I had in my head. Is it possible that this pressure to think is the pressure that resulted in a universal grammar? And the words came from the fact that we needed a bi-directional communication. So for instance, I evolved the word glass, but I could not say please pass me the glass because there was no pressure to think clearly until later. Is that possible? No, I don't think so because it's, the question is, where does that word come from? Words are, totally different from any form of animal communication. Animal communication is, Uh, mainly emotional signals. Keep out of my territory. I want to mate with you, I'm angry at you. And so on. And it's unidirectional. Animal communication is simply to influence the behavior of another organism. It's not to communicate information. Words make this huge evolutionary jump to communicate information. And the first question somebody interested in the evolution of language has to explain is where did words come from? Actually there's a prior question, but what, just keep it simple. Now you see Chomsky took words for granted, but, and I think Alvin (Plantinga) took words for granted at that time. And as I said, thought the challenge was a grammar and syntax. But the real problem is where did words come from? And so where did words come from? What, what do we know? Well, you know, when I realized that my chimpanzee wasn't learning language, really scratch my head and couldn't understand why such a intelligent creature as a chimpanzee couldn't learn language. And over the years since I, um, terminated that project, I was impressed by two totally separate lines of research. One from paleo anthropology. These were anthropologists, paleontologists who discovered that between chimpanzees and humans, there are many other species that evolved. In fact, uh, since that time, they discovered at least two dozen species after chimpanzee, um, before homo sapiens appeared. Um, and then developmental psychologists discovered these nonverbal stages during the infant's first year that we see language. And slowly but surely, I realized, okay, that a chimpanzee is the wrong species to compare to humans. You have to, um, pick a more recent ancestor. They're not alive, but they're nevertheless real. And you have to look at the nonverbal antecedents of language before you get the first words. So realizing, um, the significance of that research totally changed my whole view as to why it would, it's a total mistake to try to teach language to chimpanzee. That is so interesting. Um, I have two questions here. Um, one of them I'm curious because I've seen a lot of evolutionary biologists. I've seen a lot of evolutionary psychologists, especially the psychologists and biologists who are interested in writing about polygamy and were interested in writing about, you know, um, more naturalistic behavior will very often use, um, chimpanzees as a viable metric to sort of, you know, so the chimpanzees do this and you know, polygamy a part of that thing. How safe are we when we are comparing chimpanzees with humans in terms of evolutionary behavior? Well, you know, there are two schools of thought. One school says, well, look, their genome is 98%. Similar to humans and what's more, they're the only living ancestors. So why not look at the chimpanzees? But on the other hand, you can say that 2% difference is all that matters. Accounts for so many other things, not only language. We're bipedal uh, we have larger brains, we're cooperative. So taking the thing about cooperation, if you would, chimpanzees, you typically have a dominance hierarchy and it's the alpha male. It gets the first crack at food. So it's been demonstrated by a psychologist named Thomas Soho, who studied both chimpanzees and children, so he did a lot of research and chimpanzees arrange a situation where in one room you have a dominant champ and another room you have as subordinate Chimp. And then between you put some food and they both can see this. And if the subordinate Chimp sees the dominant Chimp have access to the food, it won't even try to get the food. However, if you put a barrier in front of the entrance to the dominant Chimp's room so that the dominant chimp cannot see the food, then the subordinate to go out and grab the food. Hmm. Hmm. So whenever there's food, there's tremendous competition. Now there's now evidence from paleo anthropology is that our ancestors such as homo erectus, who evolved about 2 million years ago, shared food that the whole dominance issue, it was replaced by cooperation. 2 million years ago. So given that they were sharing food that's prime facia evidence that they were co operating that one individual didn't, uh, hog the food at the expense of others. And then there's the question of, so where did that cooperation come from? And that's another story. There's a good apologist named RD who says it has to do with cooperative reading, that homo erectus was not only raised by the mother, but by many other parents. Alloparents also share, Is this the Bonobo model? The bonobo model that bonobos raised the children. This is, it's called is if you have, if you have cooperative breeding, your mother does provide the main protection and access, but so do, does the grandmother's so do brothers and sisters, even the father can partake in, um, rendering the young. So her insight is that the infant not only has to form an emotional connection with the mother, with all these other Alloparents, and her point is that because of satisfying these other, Alloparents, the selection for that infant to be cooperative, that those infants who can satisfy many Alloparents have a greater chance of survival than those who don't. That's her argument as to where cooperation came from. Interesting. It is also so interesting to me that paleo anthropology has so much to say about evolutionary biology and psychology in some sense. Yeah. That's only in the last 30 40 years. Right, right, right, right. Uh, so I'm curious when you said that there is about two dozen species between chimpanzees and humans in some sense. Right. And that the best possible metric to understand what is happening to us in terms of evolution would be a dead ancestor. Right. And I'm assuming you, anthropologist figured that there were all these species through fossils. So I'm curious if there is, um, if that is, like, is that the evidence, if I'm say, testing for was joint attention or intersubjectivity present in my last, uh, cousin, are we doing morphological.. the, the, the evidence from paleo anthropologists points to Homo erectus, um, second, you know, ancestor with that was, um, like humans. First it was homo habilis and then a half a million years later, homo erectus appeared. Homo erectus, by the way, um, seemed to be around until maybe 1-200,000 years ago. So they were around for more than a million and a half years, and they were the first ancestor who left Africa. Hmm. Then, um, a few hundred thousand years, they went to the middle East. They went to Southeast Asia and to Java. Hmm. Um, so they had to have some way of communicating to keep the groups coherent But the most interesting fact is that they seem to scavenge animals. They weren't, um, uh, able to hunt animals, but they were able to find a dead animal and organize other homo erectus to come help them scavenge. That is the butcher, the animal to get meat. And an answer to a Wallace's question, it's clear that they needed meat because their brains were so much larger than a chimpanzees. And meat is the most efficient way of getting the protien to sustain these large brains So there was clearly survival value in scavenging and in scavenging, by the way, homoerectus were much taller and really, bipedal um, they're almost like marathon runners. They could cover a tremendous area of East Africa. So imagine one homo erectus who discovers, um, a dead zebra, um, say killed by a lion and uh, or a saber tooth tiger, whatever other carnivores were around at the time. The homo erectus had to go back to his group and say, I just discovered that zebra or that elephant and I need your help in scaring away other animals who might be interested in scavenging. And in butchering, uh, that animal homoerectus was able to use stone tools with sharp edges to cut to the highs of these animals. So, uh, but they couldn't do it alone. They needed help. And one theory is that, well, after discovering a dead animal, homo erectus had to communicate to other members of his group that I found a dead animal. But that animal  couldn't be seen. It was miles away. Hmm. So the question is how do you describe an object that they can't see? And that requires what linguists referred to as displacements. Hmm. Get the other homo erectus to think about an object they could not see. And that's, that's the linguist who's responsible for that theory? That's where words came from, by getting somebody to think about something they can't see. Hmm. And I think that's the best explanation for where words originally came from. Right. It's interesting. I mean, when we talk about evolutionary hypotheses, we speak about the logical strands which are made up of survival pressures, right. So you tell me that the displaced reference to an object in the distance is a pressure. And that might have led to the evolution of words and all of that. I'm curious if that is because we do have fossils, we know that homoerectus we're standing up and bipedal and they were crossing all these places and obviously if they have to get to Java, if they have to cross the sea, first of all, how did that happen? They need some cooperative element. They need to be able to communicate the need to get on the same floating board or whatever that is. I'm just curious if we have any idea, what were the survival pressures that were causing homoerectus to evolve in the first place as well? Like what was happening? Do we have any idea? Yes. Uh, we know that the, um, environment, the climate changed radically at that time. The environment was much cooler so forests became thinner. Uh, there was much more open grassland and that was key in the evolution of many large host animals, zebra, wildebeest and so on. Um, so One, homo erectus didn't have the jungle or the forest to fall back on. Two, They had a need to find meat. And three, they had all these new species or multiples of oldest species to feed upon. So it was these pressures, um, that contributed ultimately to their scavenging. I have heard, um, something about the throwing hypotheses. The fact that, you know, the best way we could hunt was by throwing something cause we have these shoulders from hanging and one throw is not going to do. So we need to be collective. And because, Let me stop you right there. One question is, what are you going to throw? Right? And spheres weren't invented at that time, right? Well, the second question is it takes a lot of practice to aim and to really hit your target. So there's no evidence that homo erectus had that ability. What they did have was the ability to make simple stone tools that had sharp edges, right, could cut, you know, the height of an animal, right? But, um, the use of Spears evidence that people use Spears didn't occur until hundreds of thousands of years later. Homo erectus may eventually have used yours, but we're talking about when they first evolved. That is, um, it is so interesting to me that the disagreements within the evolutionary sphere of things are about like such intuitive questions. You're like, what? What, what are they throwing in somebody who's written a book about the throwing hypothesis? Like the, I really like the fact that it's first principle thinking in that sense. Well, it's even more than that because there's now evidence that within the last million years, homo erectus used fire, which they also helped them cook and it was much easier to process meat that's cooked than eat it raw. Right. But initially they didn't have fire. So w w we're saying that not only could they throw things or have the aim to throw things or have the weapons to hunt, but they didn't even have fire. But now there's evidence as to when those things actually did occur. Right. Would you say the true hero of the human line of evolution is Homoerectus? Like those were the ones that were really integrating in that direction or Nice. Homo erectus seems to be the best candidate you can prove it, right, of course. But there's circumstance. Well there is, there is this evidence. You see we do have fossils of animals who are hunted and scavenged and we could look at the bones of those animals. And what paleo anthropologists have done is looked microscopically at these bones for what are called bite marks. These are the marks from a lion or a leopard or a tiger and also cut marks. These are the marks made by a stone tool. And what they've shown is that in many cases the cut marks are below the bite marks meaning that homo erectus got there first and that only afterwards that other animals, uh, pull the rest of the meat off. -That changes everything. So that is evidence that they scavenged. Ah, and then if you have evidence that they scavenged, you have to ask, well, there had to be some organization to that scavenging. Homo erectus had to communicate to other homoerectus what and where the animal was that had to be scavenged. So that's the argument for the origin of language. There's no question that they scavenged. Right. Then the question is how do they about scavenging? That's the conjectural. Right? I'm curious, and this might be a little off tangent, it's just a little thought I had. So, uh, as far as I'm aware, the field of evolutionary psychology was originally called sociobiology and then it acquired a more formalized way of thinking and they started calling it evolutionary psychology. And from there, the way it has moved forward is that it's beginning to incorporate fields like molecular genetics value paleoanthropology in your case, linguistics, and I'm, I'm sure you've seen all that happen while you've been in an Academy career. I'm wondering if, if you have a guess as to what will be the breaking point in the future of evolutionary study, when we'll be able to answer these questions with more certainties than stories that are based upon first principle logic. Well, uh, it's going to be a very slow process because you know, discovering fossils Is a tough business, right? When you talk about the tip of the iceberg, very rarely do you discover a complete skeleton when you discover a fossil paleoanthropologists are happy when they find the tooth, let alone A complete skull, let alone a complete body. But slowly but surely more and more fossils will be discovered and that will provide more and more evidence of the type of creatures that evolve. And specifically in the case of scavenging how dead animals that also have to be discovered. You know, some fossils, um, were scavenged and shared by our ancestors. There's also only going back to Neanderthal. Now evidence of the genome of Neanderthals, whether biologists will be able to discover the genome of homo erectus, that would be possibly another breakthrough, you know, um, these things will take time. But the growth of research in this area is accelerating. So we, you know, we can't predict when these things are going to happen. Well, would it, would it still not be, so say if we do discover all these fosils, it would still, the study would still be very morphological. Right? We still would not be able to, you don't have like an in depth Pool of information. You won't be able to, unless you develop the time machine and listen to what homo erectus said at the beginning of a word, Right? Or Jurassic park. Something like drastic park where you No, but you know, we, we still don't know actually how the universe was born and yet it's not speculate and speculations get better and as to how that happened. So by piling one circumstantial evidence, a bit of evidence on top of another, we rule out bad arguments and we find the good arguments. It's interesting that you mentioned astronomers because you know, physicists especially involved in matters of extremely big objects, you know, astronomy and all that jazz, they usually, um, they talk about a sense of awe that they acquire from finding out how little, how absolutely miserably little we know about this entire fleet. Does that happen to you? Does it like we have no answers. How amazing is this? Does that ever happen to you in your academic career? Oh, it happens all the time. I mean, I think that one way of putting it, um, there was a very famous biologist, Stephen Gould, um, who argued that, you know, if in fact, um, God rolled the dice again And different quirks of evolution did happen, homosapiens would never have evolved. It was a consequence of an incredible string of happenstance reactions. There was no purpose involved. It just happened that way. And the chances of it happening again are less than one in a trillion. And what the challenge is now to figure out what all those little challenges were. Right. Wasn't Stephen Jay Gould, a paleo anthropologist, And he was a biologist. He was a biologist. Right, right, right. It's so interesting that to even make a statement like that, uh, you involve physics, Chaos theory. If you change the initial conditions, even the slightest, what happens eventually is anybody's business. We have no idea to be. So I'm, um, I'm also a part of the fascination that I had with your class was, um, really understanding the story of, um, how animal communication was researched upon and how it was concluded because it's not the most conventional story. Um, uh, in an academic discipline. It's not like, Oh, we figured it out. That was, there was a certain climax that involve you. Right. And I want to ask you about that. That part, you know, you, you were trying to train Nim Chimpsky into being able to speak language, a language, and then eventually you realized that's not going to happen. What happened? What was the story? Well, um, it has, that has to be broken down into a number of parts. Uh, when I was in graduate school, psychologists were still absorbing the research done by Von Frisch on language and bees. Mmm. And very little was known about animal communication and its limits. As we learn more and more about animal communication, we, that bees for example, can signal to other bees where this food very precisely, they can signal where food is two, three miles away. They do it in terms of their position and the position of the sun and directing Bees to go in that direction. Mmm. But it turns out that all of that is hardwired. There's no learning involved. You don't acquire it, you don't acquire it. It's hardwired. And what's more, those bees can't change their message to say, Oh, instead of doing this dance about where the food is, I'll sing or I'll do something else. That's also, um, that can't be changed. That's immutable. And then later on, uh, psychologists discovered Vervet monkeys can signal that a particular kind of predator is around. Like if there's an Eagle, you make one sound and that compels the other big monkeys to hide in trees. Mmm. Or if there's a snake, uh, to look on the ground and, you know, make sure that, you know, you're not, um, open to attack by a snake or if there's a leopard, you engage in other kinds of action to avoid being eaten up. Now, these were very distinct signals, but here again, it turns out these are hardwired, uh, they can't change their tune. So over the last hundred years, um, psychologists discovered there are many different kinds of signals that animals use to communicate, but no animal has more than a dozen or two dozen at most of these signals. Some of the biochemical, some of the vocal, some of them are engaging in the whole body and so on. But they're all for emotional communication. And there was very little thought about what the difference is between that kind of communication and language. And I think one of the advantage, one of the nice byproducts of trying to teach a chimpanzee language was on the one hand to see the difference between that and animal communication. And on the other hand, to realize the limitation of the few instances of communication that a chimpanzee can acquire and an a word, those were all what when it was referred to as imperative. Chimps are smart enough to learn arbitrary ways of communicating a demand. If they want a banana, if they want a drink, if they want to be chased, that they want to be tickled, they can demand it. And human instance can too. I and other psychologists, um, incorrectly interpreted those demands as words, but they're not what psychologists referred to as declarative statements where they're just trying to tell you something. They're speaking not as a speaker to a listener, but just making a demand. It's as if they can go into a vending machine and push a button and get the reward and it will be the same effect. Right? It's more like a demand from reality instead of like a negotiation effected conversation kind of. Maybe like that might be cause it's so tricky, you know, framing another form of communication in our form of communication. It's totally anthropomorphic, understandably so that it's second nature to superimpose different meanings onto these different communicative act. But it turns out that you can cleanly separate what's a demand from what's a declaration, what's the communication of information. Alright, I have one last question, professor. I'm, I'm curious, um, and I don't know if we've touched upon this the first time we ran a podcast, but that is also a mystery surrounding what makes rhythm be that in dancing or in music, what, what, what is this what are the bunch of things that are happening, you know, for, for dancing or music to evolve, right. Is that, has that, is there any speculation to the effect of the rhythm of music is similar to the universal grammar kind of thing? Like is there, is there something about that? So wonderful question and I could probably talk for hours about it, but I mean I'm fine by that. The first thing I'll say, and I'm not the first person to think this, is that it's a funny coincidence that we're not only the only species that have language, but we're the only species that have music. Um, and there's probably some relation, but all attempts to find the grammar of music. Have failed? - Have failed. However, um, there is one psychologist named Merlin Donald who pointed out that a step towards language was what he called Mimesis. And that is movements of the whole body in synchrony with movements of another body, like an army, like, like the Rockettes. They're all dancing rhythmically and in-step. Right. And certainly Rouse was speculating that our ancestors did that and moved around rhythmically and from those rhythms, perhaps music evolve. And we know that the relation between an infant and a mother are rhythmically connected. In other words, if you look at the utterances in whimpers and cries from a baby to a mother's comments, these have what psychologists call a protoconversational quality that they take turns. So, and there's a rhythm to those. You know, as one speeds up, the other speeds up is one slows down the other slows down. That's interesting. That is so interesting. Well, these are just observations. I mean there's a lot to work out, but as I say, it's not just a coincidence that we have music and that we have language. Interesting. That that was a brilliant note to, uh, for me to stop asking questions. Do you have any questions from the professor? No, I think it was very interesting thorough conversation. I think so too. I think we have definitely done a better job. I have done a better job at asking you questions this time and I am very satisfied with this conversation. Thank you so much for doing this. It is always a pleasure. 