 Nibras Abo Alzahab - Because we believe that everyone living on earth has the right to move his limbs, to shake hands and do whatever he wants, we decided to take the courage to develop a new generation of artificial limbs that are totally inspired from the structure of the human limbs. Riahm Daiea- The project is an exoskeleton to restore the function of the limb of casualties of war and accidents. They are able to control the movement of the arm by thoughts only, which is a new, innovative and creative idea. Sara matouk - The Brain-Computer Interface system is a user-friendly system. Once the user thinks of a movement, an artificial intelligent system can translate the thoughts into a control command then moves the limb as required. Hassan Alimam - The reason the artificial muscles are used as actuator instead of electrical motors are its similarity to the biological muscle, it acts similarly to the linear movement and static and dynamic characteristics (elasticity and force) of the biological muscle. Moreover, it is light, smooth and have high force-to-weight ratio. Ali Alarja - The Exoskeleton transfer the movement from the artificial muscles to the human joints. It provides the user with a comfortable armor that warps its limbs and move it. It is designed using Anthropometry and bio-mechanics. The prototype was built using processed wood and metal. The combination of the three fields of science, Brain-Computer Interface Artificial Muscles and Bionics and Exoskeletons, is the core of the First Artificial Peripheral Nervous system in the world. The Artificial intelligent stage represents the brain, the electric wires represents the nerves, the conditioning circuit and the valve represents the synapse and the pneumatic artificial muscles represents the biological muscles. Furthermore, the exoskeleton body represents the human skeleton. MHD Shafik Alnahhas - The Project is able to be used by different kind of people. Firstly, patient who suffers from severe spinal cord injury (SCI) or physically weak people. Secondly, patient companion can wear the exoskeleton to support their body while carrying or moving the patient. Thirdly, laborers who do jobs that require high physical capabilities. 