 Hey guys! Just check up a few frames about a crazy stuff, that we are going to make tonight Looking cool isn’t it? But first of all Now we have more than 200 000 fans It`s even bigger than population of some countries like Samoa So thank you for keeping interested! Just want you to know, that you are the only reason why my lab didn’t close this year having a lot of different problems. So I really love you, and working for you. But we still have enough haters here! Guys who always write, that my repulsors and reactors don’t have enough power. So, in this video I decided to increase the power dramatically! And tonight we gonna make the Big F*cking Repulsor. First of all, I decided to increase combustion chamber volume in… 20 times! No! He won’t fix it on a hand!! Ofcourse I will! It definitely won’t fit on my palm, like past models but guys! I still have exoskeleton! Actually I had to make some work with it But I really couldn’t predict that I will wear it permanently on technical exhibition. Simple lifehack: next time you make exoskeleton, set the nuts on the external surface. After all, don’t wanna boast.. No I actually want to! Did you notice the fact that all my gadgets can be easily combined in different ways like Lego? Hydrogen and Oxygen tube is set up near the nozzle MAPP gas input tube connected to the opposite side I know what you are thinking about) Youi`ll need a whole bunch of energy to power such a bazooka And you god damned right! Lets start over with the fact that I need dozen of kilowatts for myself to design and assemble this project at night after the second job Thanks to my friends from Red Bull for energy drinks. Because there’s no need to sleep anymore) Now what about costume energy gain. Firstly I need a new electrolytic heart to support power consumption, That increases 4 times. Hope that it won’t overheat like previous model. So guys, tonight we also have a heart transplantation in our plan! The most fascinating feeling is to tune a new reactor on the same monitor with my organic heart! Did you ever wonder that you can easily display your heart rate on tube oscilloscope monitor with help of simple headphones? Its typical practice in our intensive care units when simple heart monitors have some bugs because of strong radiation level (joke about Russians) Ready for the coolest part of this video? Now I`m gonna make a pack with MAPP fuel tanks and gas control system right on a back of the body armor. What about spare parts, You now my survival rule #1: All the stuff that you can’t find at Leroy Merlin, and nearest radio market You can find at the scrapyard. Arduino module with Li-Ion banks will supply and control gas output system. (soldering gas control module) (writing sketch for Arduino and gas control module) (programming Arduino) 72 hours without sleep) (testing gas control system) (mounting gas control module to pack) By the way crazy guys who always want to replicate my stuff, now can make the sponsorship subscribe. So they will get detailed video of my inventions with pdf schematics. (click the link below to become Alex Lab sponsor) Epic BFR tests follow in December Because you all asked me to download video right now, and right now I’m in Saint Petersburg, far from my Lab so I ll make the test video as soon as I return home. Don’t forget about safety while working with hydrogen Subscribe and try Sponsor button So I could release new videos more often with your support. 