BusinessWe design and make semiconductors that we sell to electronics designers and manufacturers all over the world. Our operations began in 1930, and we are incorporated in Delaware. With headquarters in Dallas, Texas, we have design, manufacturing or sales operations in more than 30 countries. Our two reportable segments are Analog and Embedded Processing, and we report the results of our remaining business activities in Other. In 2019, we generated $14.38 billion of revenue.For many years, we have run our business with three overarching ambitions in mind. First, we will act like owners who will own the company for decades. Second, we will adapt and succeed in a world that is ever changing. And third, we will be a company that we are personally proud to be a part of and that we would want as our neighbor. When we are successful in achieving these ambitions, our employees, customers, communities and shareholders all win.Our business model is designed around four sustainable competitive advantages that we believe, in combination, put us in a unique class of companies. These advantages include (i) a strong foundation of manufacturing and technology, (ii) a broad portfolio of differentiated analog and embedded processing products, (iii) reach of market channels including our sales force and TI.com and (iv) diversity and longevity of our products, markets and customer positions. Our strategic focus, and where we invest the majority of our resources, is on Analog and Embedded Processing, with a particular emphasis on designing and selling those products into the industrial and automotive markets. We believe these markets represent the best growth opportunities over the next decade or longer, due to increasing semiconductor content. Additionally, analog and embedded processing products sold into industrial and automotive markets provide long product life cycles, intrinsic diversity and less capital-intensive manufacturing, which we believe offer stability, profitability and strong cash generation. This business model is the foundation of our capital management strategy, which is based on our belief that free cash flow growth, especially on a per-share basis, is important for maximizing shareholder value over the long term. We also believe that free cash flow (cash flow from operations less capital expenditures) will be valued only if it is productively invested in the business or returned to shareholders. TI’s business model puts us in a unique class of companies with the ability to grow, generate cash and return that cash to shareholders.The combined effect of our ambitions, business model and sustainable competitive advantages is that we have continued to build a stronger company. Over time, we have gained market share in Analog and Embedded Processing and grown and returned all free cash flow to our owners.Product information Semiconductors are electronic components that serve as the building blocks inside modern electronic systems and equipment. Semiconductors, generally known as “chips,” combine multiple transistors to form a complete electronic circuit. We have tens of thousands of products that are used to accomplish many different things, such as converting and amplifying signals, interfacing with other devices, managing and distributing power, processing data, canceling noise and improving signal resolution. This broad portfolio includes products that are integral to almost all electronic equipment.Our segments represent groups of similar products that are combined on the basis of similar design and development requirements, product characteristics, manufacturing processes and distribution channels. Our segments also reflect how management allocates resources and measures results.AnalogOur Analog segment generated $10.22 billion of revenue in 2019. Analog semiconductors change real-world signals, such as sound, temperature, pressure or images, by conditioning them, amplifying them and often converting them to a stream of digital data that can be processed by other semiconductors, such as embedded processors. Analog semiconductors are also used to manage power in all electronic equipment by converting, distributing, storing, discharging, isolating and measuring electrical energy, whether the equipment is plugged into a wall or using a battery. Our Analog products are used in many markets, particularly industrial, automotive and personal electronics.Sales of our Analog products generated about 71% of our revenue in 2019. According to external sources, the market for analog semiconductors was about $54 billion in 2019. Our Analog segment’s revenue in 2019 was about 19% of this fragmented market, which is the leading position. We believe we are well positioned to increase our market share over time.2Our Analog segment includes the following major product lines: Power, Signal Chain and High Volume.PowerPower includes products that help customers manage power in electronic systems. Our broad portfolio is designed to manage power requirements across different voltage levels using battery management solutions, portable components, power supply controls, point-of-load products, switches and interfaces, integrated protection devices, high-voltage products and mobile lighting and display products.Signal ChainSignal Chain includes products that sense, condition and measure real-world signals to allow information to be transferred or converted for further processing and control. Our Signal Chain products, which serve a variety of end markets, include amplifiers, data converters, interface products, motor drives, clocks and sensing products.High VolumeHigh Volume includes integrated analog and standard products that are primarily sold into markets such as personal electronics, industrial and automotive. These products support applications like displays and automotive safety systems.Embedded ProcessingOur Embedded Processing segment generated $2.94 billion of revenue in 2019. Embedded Processing products are the “brains” of many types of electronic equipment. Embedded processors are designed to handle specific tasks and can be optimized for various combinations of performance, power and cost, depending on the application. Our devices vary from simple, low-cost microcontrollers used in applications such as electric toothbrushes to highly specialized, complex devices used in automotive applications such as infotainment systems and advanced driver assistance systems (ADAS). Our Embedded Processing products are used in many markets, particularly industrial and automotive.An important characteristic of our Embedded Processing products is that our customers often invest their own research and development (R&D) to write software that operates on our products. This investment tends to increase the length of our customer relationships because many customers prefer to re-use software from one product generation to the next.Sales of Embedded Processing products generated about 20% of our revenue in 2019. According to external sources, the market for embedded processors was about $18 billion in 2019. Our Embedded Processing segment’s revenue in 2019 was about 16% of this fragmented market, which is among the leaders. We believe we are well positioned to increase our market share over time.Our Embedded Processing segment includes the following major product lines: Connected Microcontrollers and Processors.Connected MicrocontrollersConnected Microcontrollers includes microcontrollers, microcontrollers with integrated wireless capabilities and stand-alone wireless connectivity solutions. Microcontrollers are self-contained systems with a processor core, memory and peripherals that are designed to control a set of specific tasks for electronic equipment.ProcessorsProcessors includes digital signal processors (DSPs) and applications processors. DSPs perform mathematical computations almost instantaneously to process or improve digital data. Applications processors are designed for specific computing activity.OtherWe report the results of our remaining business activities in Other, which includes operating segments that do not meet the quantitative thresholds for individually reportable segments and cannot be aggregated with other operating segments. Other generated $1.22 billion of revenue in 2019 and includes revenue from DLP® products (primarily used in projectors to create high-definition images), calculators and certain custom semiconductors known as application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs).3In Other, we also include items that are not used in evaluating the results of or in allocating resources to our segments. Examples of these items include acquisition charges, restructuring charges, and certain corporate-level items, such as litigation expenses, environmental costs, insurance settlements and gains and losses from other activities, including asset dispositions.Markets for our productsThe table below lists the major markets for our products in 2019 and the estimated percentage of our 2019 revenue that the market represented. The chart also lists, in declining order of our revenue, the sectors within each market.MarketSectorIndustrialFactory automation & control(36% of TI revenue)Building automationGrid infrastructureMedicalAerospace & defenseTest & measurementAppliancesPro audio, video & signageMotor drivesPower deliveryRetail automation & paymentsIndustrial transportLightingAutomotiveInfotainment & cluster(21% of TI revenue)Advanced driver assistance systems (ADAS)Passive safetyHybrid, electric & powertrain systemsBody electronics & lightingPersonal electronicsMobile phones(23% of TI revenue)Portable electronicsPC & notebooksConnected peripherals & printersHome theatre & entertainmentTVTabletsWearables (non-medical)Data storageGamingCommunications equipmentWireless infrastructure(11% of TI revenue)Wired networkingBroadband fixed line accessDatacom moduleEnterprise systemsData center & enterprise computing(6% of TI revenue)Enterprise projectorsEnterprise machineOther (calculators and other)(3% of TI revenue)Market characteristicsCompetitive landscapeDespite recent consolidation, the analog and embedded processing markets remain highly fragmented. As a result, we face significant global competition from dozens of large and small companies, including both broad-based suppliers and niche suppliers. Our competitors also include emerging companies, particularly in Asia, that sell products into the same markets in which we operate.4We believe that competitive performance in the semiconductor market generally depends on several factors, including the breadth of a company’s product line, the strength and depth of its channels to market, technological innovation, product development execution, technical support, customer service, quality, reliability, manufacturing capacity and capabilities and price. In addition, manufacturing process and package technologies that provide differentiated levels of performance and a structural cost advantage are competitive factors for our Analog products, and customers’ prior investments in software development is a competitive factor for our Embedded Processing products.Product cycleThe global semiconductor market is characterized by constant, though generally incremental, advances in product designs and manufacturing processes. Semiconductor prices and manufacturing costs tend to decline over time as manufacturing processes and product life cycles mature.Market cycleThe “semiconductor cycle” refers to the ebb and flow of supply and demand and the building and depleting of inventories. The semiconductor market historically has been characterized by periods of tight supply caused by strengthening demand and/or insufficient manufacturing capacity, followed by periods of surplus inventory caused by weakening demand and/or excess manufacturing capacity. These are typically referred to as upturns and downturns in the semiconductor cycle. The semiconductor cycle could be affected by the significant time and money required to build and maintain semiconductor manufacturing facilities.We employ several strategies to dampen the effect of the semiconductor cycle on TI. We focus our resources on analog and embedded processing products and industrial and automotive markets. These products and markets serve a large and diverse customer base, which reduces our dependence on the performance of a single market or small group of customers. Industrial and automotive markets also benefit from long product life cycles, which help to smooth the impact of cyclicality. In addition, we plan manufacturing facility and equipment expansion ahead of demand, as well as utilize consignment inventory programs to give us improved insight into customer demand and more accurately manage factory loadings.SeasonalityOur revenue is subject to some seasonal variation. Historically, our sequential revenue growth rate tends to be weaker in the first and fourth quarters when compared with the second and third quarters.Customers, sales and distributionWe sell our products to about 100,000 customers. Our customer base is diverse, with more than one-third of our revenue derived from customers outside our largest 100.We market and sell our products through direct sales channels, including our broad sales force and our website, and through distributors. In 2019, about 65% of our sales were fulfilled through our distributors, and they maintain inventory of our products.Over the past several years, we have been investing in new capabilities and evolving our distribution network to better align with our strategy to establish closer, more direct relationships with our customers. Closer direct customer relationships give us better insight into customer needs and allow us to provide better service and greater assurance of supply, among other benefits. As we expand these direct customer relationships over the next several years, we will have less business flowing through the distribution channel and therefore will require fewer distributors. Our investments in new and improved capabilities to directly support our customers include website and e-commerce enhancements as well as inventory consignment programs and order fulfillment services.ManufacturingSemiconductor manufacturing begins with a sequence of photolithographic and chemical processing steps that fabricate a number of semiconductor devices on a thin silicon wafer. Each device on the wafer is packaged and tested. The entire process takes place in highly specialized facilities, with most products requiring about two to three months for completion.5We own and operate semiconductor manufacturing facilities in North America, Asia, Japan and Europe. These include both wafer fabrication and assembly/test facilities. Our facilities require substantial investment to construct and are largely fixed-cost assets once in operation.We invest in manufacturing technologies and do most of our manufacturing in-house. This strategic decision to directly control our manufacturing helps ensure a consistent supply of products for our customers and also allows us to invest in technology that differentiates the features of our products. We have focused on creating a competitive manufacturing cost advantage by investing in our advanced analog 300-millimeter capacity, which has about a 40% cost advantage per unpackaged chip over 200-millimeter. To strengthen this advantage, we are moving forward with our plan to build our new 300-millimeter wafer fabrication facility in Richardson, Texas, as 300-millimeter wafers will continue to support the majority of our Analog growth.We expect to continue to maintain sufficient internal manufacturing capacity to meet the majority of our production needs and to obtain manufacturing equipment to support new technology developments and revenue growth. To supplement our manufacturing capacity and maximize our responsiveness to customer demand, we use the capacity of outside suppliers, commonly known as foundries, and subcontractors. In 2019, we sourced about 20% of our total wafers from external foundries, most of which support our Embedded Processing segment, and about 40% of our assembly/test services from subcontractors.InventoryOur objectives for inventory are to maintain high levels of customer service and stable lead times, minimize inventory obsolescence and improve manufacturing asset utilization. To meet these objectives and to allow greater flexibility in periods of high demand, we build ahead of demand long-lived, low-volume products and maintain inventory of other products that have a broad customer base and low risk of obsolescence. Further, we have improved insight into demand and are better able to manage our factory loadings because over time we have increased consignment inventory programs and are building closer, more direct relationships with our customers. In 2019, about 65% of TI revenue was fulfilled from consignment programs. Our strategy and expected customer demand will cause our inventory levels to fluctuate over time.BacklogWe define backlog as of a particular date as purchase orders with a customer-requested delivery date within a specified length of time. Our backlog at any particular date may not be indicative of revenue for any future period. As customer requirements and industry conditions change, orders may be subject to cancellation or modification of terms such as pricing, quantity or delivery date. Customer order placement practices continually evolve based on customers’ individual business needs and capabilities, as well as industry supply and capacity considerations. Further, our consignment programs do not result in backlog because the order occurs at the same time as delivery, i.e., when the customer pulls the product from consigned inventory. Our backlog of orders was $1.0 billion at December 31, 2019, and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2018.Raw materialsWe purchase materials, parts and supplies from a number of suppliers. In some cases we purchase such items from sole-source suppliers. The materials, parts and supplies essential to our business are generally available at present, and we believe that such materials, parts and supplies will be available in the foreseeable future.Intellectual propertyWe own many patents, and have many patent applications pending, in the United States and other countries in fields relating to our business. We have developed a strong, broad-based patent portfolio and continually add patents to that portfolio. We also have license agreements, which vary in duration, involving rights to our portfolio or those of other companies. We do not consider our business materially dependent upon any one patent or patent license.We often participate in industry initiatives to set technical standards. Our competitors may participate in the same initiatives. Participation in these initiatives may require us to license certain of our patents to other companies on reasonable and non-discriminatory terms.We own trademarks that are used in the conduct of our business. These trademarks are valuable assets, the most important of which are “Texas Instruments” and our corporate monogram.6Executive officers of the RegistrantThe following is an alphabetical list of the names and ages of the executive officers of the company and the positions or offices with the company held by each person named:NameAgePositionNiels Anderskouv50Senior Vice PresidentAhmad S. Bahai57Senior Vice PresidentEllen L. Barker57Senior Vice President and Chief Information OfficerKyle M. Flessner49Senior Vice PresidentHaviv Ilan51Senior Vice PresidentHagop H. Kozanian37Senior Vice PresidentRafael R. Lizardi47Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting OfficerAmichai Ron42Senior Vice PresidentRichard K. Templeton61Director, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive OfficerCynthia Hoff Trochu56Senior Vice President, Secretary and General CounselJulie M. Van Haren51Senior Vice PresidentDarla H. Whitaker54Senior Vice PresidentBing Xie52Senior Vice PresidentThe term of office of these officers is from the date of their election until their successor shall have been elected and qualified. All have been employees of the company for more than five years. Messrs. Templeton and Xie and Ms. Whitaker have served as executive officers of the company for more than five years. Ms. Trochu became an executive officer of the company in 2015. Messrs. Anderskouv, Ilan and Lizardi and Mses. Barker and Van Haren became executive officers of the company in 2017. Messrs. Bahai, Flessner and Kozanian became executive officers of the company in 2018. Mr. Ron became an executive officer in 2019. Mr. Anderskouv was previously an executive officer of the company from 2012 to 2014.EmployeesAt December 31, 2019, we had 29,768 employees.Available informationOur internet address is www.ti.com. Information on our website is not part of this report. We make available free of charge through our Investor Relations website our reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with the SEC. Also available through the TI Investor Relations website are reports filed by our directors and executive officers on Forms 3, 4 and 5, and amendments to those reports.Available on our website at www.ti.com/corporategovernance: (i) our Corporate Governance Guidelines; (ii) charters for the Audit, Compensation, and Governance and Stockholder Relations Committees of our board of directors; (iii) our Code of Conduct; and (iv) our Code of Ethics for TI Chief Executive Officer and Senior Finance Officers. Stockholders may request copies of these documents free of charge by writing to Texas Instruments Incorporated, P.O. Box 660199, MS 8657, Dallas, Texas, 75266-0199, Attention: Investor Relations.