 Welcome to the second video in Ethereum Fundamentals. Today's topic is: Introduction To Mining Ether. Let's recap what we learned in the previous video. We looked at Geth, the command line interface for Ethereum. We learned how to install the latest version of Geth for Windows. In the lab session, we saw how to set up Geth, and create a private blockchain. Lastly, we created our first Ethereum account. So let's look at our goals for today. We will start with an overview of ether. Next, we will learn about mining ether, which is one of the most crucial concepts in blockchain technology and crypto currencies. Finally, we will continue our lab, where we will learn how to create ether. Ok, let's dive into today's topic. What is ether, what is mining, and how are the two related? What is ether? Simply put, ether is the “Fuel for operating Ethereum”. As we saw in the previous video, computers that run Ethereum are called nodes. These nodes need a way to be paid for "renting out" their resources, namely, computational power, storage and networking, in order to keep Ethereum up and running. But this needs to happen without the exchange of traditional currency, given that Ethereum does not rely on a third party, like a state-backed central bank. To solve this problem, ether is used to compensate these nodes. Think of it as a token of value that is accepted by all nodes on the Ethereum network. Now, assuming that you have some ether, what can you do with it? If you are a developer, who is creating applications on Ethereum, you need "space" on the Ethereum blockchain to store and run your applications. This means, you need a way to "rent space" on the blockchain. Ether is used to compensate nodes, to provide space in the blockchain for you. We will explore this mechanism, also known as "Gas", in detail later. Lastly, Ethereum can be traded for other currencies, including crypto currencies such as Bitcoin, or traditional currencies such as the US Dollar. Several exchanges are available online, that let you do so. So, how is new ether created? Ethereum relies on the growth of its blockchain. Unless new blocks containing transactions are added to the blockchain, Ethereum becomes useless. How are these blocks created? These blocks are not created by a single node. They are created using a competition. Ethereum nodes compete with each other to create the next block that will be added to the blockchain. They perform complex calculations, known as hashing algorithms, that require a large amount of time and effort to generate the "right answer". The winning node, the one who comes up with the "right answer", is rewarded with new ether, that is credited to their account. Therefore, this process that results in the "Creation of Ether" is called "Mining”. Ok, so far, we learned about ether, and the process that creates it, mining. Now, let's create some ether in our private blockchain! Ensure that you have watched our previous video, so that you can follow along. Please note: The concepts that you learn here, can easily be used to create real ether. However, creating or mining real ether will not be covered here. Let’s use geth to mine some ether, on a private Ethereum blockchain. Let’s head into the nugget1 directory, and list its contents. First, we need to have a coinbase, which refers to the primary Ethereum account, that you will use to mine ether. Check if you have a "data" folder. If you don’t have it , pause the video now, and follow the instructions in our previous video, to create an Ethereum account. Once you have a coinbase, run the “accounts” helper script. This will generate a file called “output.txt”. Use notepad to open this file. We will see that this file contains a long hex string, which represents the coinbase, or account, address. Note that your hex string will be different that what you see here. Select this string with your cursor, and copy it using control C. Close notepad after copying this string. Next, we need to regenerate the genesis block, with your coinbase. Use notepad to open the "g2.json" file. Paste the coinbase, using control V, into the spot that says, add your coinbase here. Save this file, and quit notepad. Run the command, “init g2.json”, to regenerate the genesis block, with your coinbase. Ignore any error messages that may show up. Now, let’s check the balance of ether in our coinbase. Use the “console” helper script to open a geth console. Type “load script gethload.js” to load our helper functions, into geth. Now, type “check all balances” to see your coinbase balance. You will see, that you have a zero ether balance. Ok, so now, we are ready to start mining some ether! Exit the console, by typing "exit". Now, use the "mine" helper script, to start mining. We will let the script run for about 10 minutes, and see how its doing. After about 10 minutes of letting the miner run, let's stop it. Use control C, followed by the exit command in geth, to exit the miner. From your Windows command line, start the geth console using the "console" helper script. Load the javascript helper functions using "load script geth load dot js". Type "check all balances". You will see that your account contains some ether deposited in it. Congrats! You have just earned some ether on your private blockchain. Hope you enjoyed this video. Stay tuned for the next one. Thank you! 