 From now on, the word "blockchain" is going to be one of the words . you hear the most (first) and pronounce (after)  Blockchain is a technology that will change the world more than the internet did. Yes: more than the internet did ... and for the good of people and companies. Blockchain is the greatest socio-technological advance that humanity will experience, the fourth industrial revolution. The origin of blockchain is the criptomoneda bitcoin, which is the first example of a blockchain block chain, which has allowed us to think about using its protocol for thousands of other things. We have known the internet of information. Now we go to the internet of value. The concept is not easy but if you understand it, you will slurp when you imagine all the good that blockchain will bring to our lives. And the most exciting thing is not its structure, which is difficult to understand, but its applications, amazing. But before, let's know what blockchain is. Blockchain is, as its name suggests, a chain of blocks. Until now, everything was governed by centralized databases. A blockchain is a distributed database. And what is that…? A database that is not in a single site and governed by a single company, but is distributed on different computers or nodes that are all equally important. Imagine an accounting book Blockchain is an accounting book that replicates identically on all nodes where it is. But every note, every new operation (or new block) also occurs in all of them. There is no entity that has all the information. This is distributed in updated copies in real time between all the nodes. Imagine a Lego block building Each block is an operation. And every time you put a new block, that block contains all the information of all of the above, which can not be modified or deleted. How do you accept that all nodes in the chain put a new block? There is the key: blockchain poses a mathematical challenge to the nodes and the first one to solve it sends the solution (unique, because it is mathematical) to others. If the majority certify that the result is true, that block is accepted by all and becomes part of the chain, with all the information above and the permanent certification of the moment that operation was made. Thus, the network operates by consensus between the parties. It is inviolable. Once an operation is approved in the master book, it can no longer be deleted or modified. In one sentence: Blockchain replaces confidence by mathematical truth. Goodbye to fraud: everything is transparent and auditable by all live, and blockchain is full security: everything is encrypted with asymmetric cryptography. Another of the big blockchain promises are smart contracts. Instead of signing a paper and have a third party - whether a notary or a judge - to ensure that the contract is fulfilled, signing a smart contract what you do is give OK to an application. It is a contract that is self-executing when the conditions signed by the two parties are fulfilled. But let's see blockchain through examples! You buy a ticket for 100 euros to go to Paris. But you add a 10 euro insurance that says that if the flight leaves more than 2 hours late, you are refunded the full amount. When you are waiting for your flight to leave and two hours pass without taking off, you see on the iPad that you have just reached your bank a transfer of 110 €. Nobody gave the order: the official database linked to the smart contract was the condition fulfilled for the system to compensate you, without any human role. Imagine saving paperwork for the company and saving paperwork, time and money for the customer!  And if you insure your car, that in a few years will be full of sensors and connected? We mix things (IoT) internet with blockchain. If you give them access, insurers will be able to charge you less because they will watch live that you drive very prudently, or that you only use it for two hours and 22 minutes a week. There will be no fraud, nor will you be evaluated for what you say happened: much of the experts' work will disappear because most of the information will have it in real time (from how the accident was to what damages, according to the sensors and cameras). Blockchain will make it impossible for someone buys a lottery ticket whitening without a trace. To some 'lucky' this is not going to like ... There are also great applications for journalism: today, commissions and management do not sell any products to compensate for less than one euro. The efficiency of Blockchain will allow micropayments of a penny for reading an article, and it may be the journalist himself who covers it without intervening a mass media. There may be a large kiosk where each medium or each author charges the exact amount depending on the time a reader spends reading them. There will be better journalism: the #clickbait (news-bait) fraud will end because the media will not search for the click but rather spend time on your page They will charge advertisers or readers for viewing time rather than number of clicks. Transparency in donations to NGOs: You can view and track your money since you donate until the money reaches the project and the project is completed. And for billing issues? When a self-employed person issues an invoice, he will collect it in direct and Treasury will stay the VAT and other taxes also in that instant. Goodbye to corruption. End of duplicate invoices and other scams. This same thing will happen in the administration and the companies. In crowdfunding, a smart contract will allow that if the project that hundreds of people wanted to finance is not done in marking time, money is automatically returned to them all without one person having to spend even a second to manage without giving explanations. The vote in the elections with blockchain will be safer, faster count (live), everyone can audit it: journalists, government, parties ... even you can check that your vote was what you wanted, making a query directly to the base of data. In Australia, the government is putting Police videos into a blockchain to ensure they are not altered. By 2020, Dubai will transfer all its public documents to a blockchain and not use more paper. The government estimates that it will release 25 MILLION hours a year of people dedicated to managing stored documents. And for culture? A photographer or a musician can already monetize his images and songs with platforms that guarantee with blockchain that the author is who sells the rights and they make arrive the money that generates its use at the price that he puts. It avoids to find out who has the rights and is paid and automatically charged, between machines and without intermediaries. This decentralization will also come to Google and Facebook, which are now walled gardens where we spent a lot of time. They will run out of the giant business to market with our data. And in electronic commerce ... how will it affect? Also with decentralization. What is the key to e-commerce? The trust. Whoever sells something physical, it will not depend so much on Amazon to do so. The role of guarantor of Amazon will not be important because customers and businesses do not need to trust the other side thanks to blockchain gives that trust. An example? If you buy something, your money goes to a 'bridge account'. Only when you confirm that you have received the order, the money goes out of the account to the seller. Another brutal advance is the subject of your identity, not only and only in your hands and in those of others. Do you imagine seeing anything on the internet and give it to buy without registering anywhere, without putting 20 times your physical address and your credit card? One click, and in a few hours, the product in your house. We would all have a unique digital identity, a unique identifier that would not be owned by anyone. We would only contribute with each transaction. You will buy a bike with GPS manufacturer registers with a unique number to make and what store sells is recorded and, of course, that you are the owner once you did buy it. It will not make sense to be robbed because its GPS and the blockchain guarantee that you are the owner. And if you want to rent it, you make a contract for a few hours with a private individual and rent it. His will be the bike that time and his responsibility. Who says your bike says... your car... Or your house… Giant leap for collaborative economy. Imagine a world where we can rent everything without needing AirBNB, BlaBlaCar or Cabify. Because everything will be connected and geolocalized. We have seen many examples and we have understood how blockchain works. It is difficult and, if you are a clumsy one with ears, like me, perhaps you doubt the safety and the anonymity All this works thanks also to the cryptography. Cryptography is the art of transforming a readable message into an unreadable and unique one. That's called encryption. You put a data, for example a text - the word "Dog" - and that is encrypted in hexadecimal form. That is to say, it is applied a double mathematical formula that turns it into a combination of numbers and letters unintelligible. The result is what is called a hash of 256 bits and so ugly looks like this: The hash is unique. But what if someone finds out the mathematical function? The system is much more complex because it uses asymmetric cryptography. You all know what asymmetric cryptography is, do not you? Well, I'll clarify it in case there is any twist: there is a public key to encrypt a message and a private one to decrypt it. If Carlos sends a message to Maria, Carlos only has to know the public key of Maria and can send it encrypted. Only Mary, with her private key, can decipher it. The public key is what will allow everyone to know that a company has sold a bike but only the buyer can see - with his private key - all the data on that invoice. And every link in that chain Treasury, the bike shop, its suppliers, the customer… can transparently access the part of the information that corresponds to them and not the rest The manufacturer can not see the name or any data of the buyer, for example How do you like it? Science fiction, right? It is present. In four or five years from now, the world we live in will not be recognized by the mother who gave birth to you. The companies will be more efficient, the services and products will be better, we will buy them cheaper and everything will be personalized in a literal way: there will be a product for each person, and at a much better price. Aren’t yo excited to see it ...? 