 Hi everyone, my name is Rodrigo Meirelles, and I lead New Business Ventures here at WEX. Part of New Business Ventures' mission is to foster the development of the culture of innovation. Everybody at WEX innovates, and have been doing that for many years. One of the initiatives that we have developed in New Business Ventures was a competition around one of the most interesting topics that we have in technology today. It is Blockchain. The Blockchain competition was named to have WEXers to submit ideas through that competition in order to give us their perspectives on ways Blockchain could be used in their business. Well, we were amazed by the participation. We had almost 100 employees jointly working in different teams, submitting a total of 26 ideas in all different business lines, and participation from all different geographies where we operate. It was amazing. These ideas were really amazing. Well let's listen out to one of the teams to see how did they see Blockchain fitting in their possible new growth strategy. Brazil has a complex and sophisticated payments system driving us to be innovative and creative. At WEX Brazil, we have the technical resources and manager support to enable ongoing development for continuous evolution such as an environment, APIs, processing, among others. Blockchain is one of the visionary movements that we are already digging into deeper. We see a great opportunity to innovate in the world of Corporate Payments, but other companies see it as a threat. This contest was an opportunity to anticipate and organize everything we were looking at. These kinds of programs really helped us get closer, share ideas, and grow together. Well the winning participants, the top three finalists, one idea from Health, one idea from Fleet, one idea from Travel. All the teams engaged will have the reward of getting a technical training in Blockchain from one of the best institutions worldwide. So WEXers are doing great and amazing participation and now we're exploring even new concepts to have new competitions throughout the calendar year. So stay tuned, thank you very much for your participation, that's how we do it. Thank you very much. [Music] 