 Hi my name is Denis and I'm the CTO in BANKEX Currently we are developing the Proof of Asset Protocol. The Proof of Asset Protocol is a sequence of actions which lead to digitizing and tokenizing assets. The asset we tokenize is already liquid, but it's possible to increase its liquidity and make it easier to realize and market. In order to increase liquidity, we use our protocol, applying IoT technologies and external data sources to help evaluate the asset. The Proof of Asset Protocol allows us to tokenize assets. This process of tokenizing Involves two primary actors: the owner of asset, the counterparty, with BANKEX acting as a platform. These two actors need to establish a relation between them. For example the asset owner can lend his asset, send it, or use the asset as a deposit. This can be applied to various situation, such as car rental service, car sharing, commodities, real estate applications and so on. So would you be able to tokenize something like a car? Yes, first you would need to create a digital asset, that contains as much information as necessary to represent the real life asset in terms of its value. We would be able to track further Development of the asset using IoT sensors. For example, certain electric cars allow you to evaluate Information such as their mileage, using a built-in API. This makes tokenization of them a rather straightforward process. But for an ordinary car, this would require installing some additional hardware to gather the data. At BANKEX we are currently developing a series of smart contracts, that are used to tokenize different asset types. However, smart contract cannot exist without connection to the real world. This is a general problem of smart contracts of this kind. A smart contract is unable to acquire additional information on the asset it represents from external sources on its own. That's why we need to provide this with information via external data sources, known as Oracles, which are widely used in blockchains such as Ethereum. One of our current tasks is the creation of such oracles. They need to be fast, reliable and trusted worldwide. Because the blockchain technology relies on trust between users. Oracles and smart contracts form the core of our technology. The next stage are the UI and UX that will enable users to operate this technology in a convenient, user-friendly way. We are widely using Microsoft Azure technology, which provides us with reliable cloud hosting for the elements that couldn't be Implemented in blockchain entirely, such as additional information, images, documents and other data accompanying the asset. Blockchain technology has limitations regarding the size of the object. Microsoft technologies helped us to target this issue. We are constantly making new components of our protocol publicly available on GitHub and will soon be ready to present our technology as a complete process. Our tokenization demo is currently available in our testing environment and is being tested for real estate applications and car services. All that is left now is improving them until they are ready to face the world. A couple words about our team. We have several strong teams specializing in different aspects. We take great pride in our Smart Contract Team. We have a very strong IoT team, currently working on integration on different devices, such as vehicles, various beacons and even smartphone sensors. We have a strong Backend Team and a great Development Team, providing us with user interface for user-friendly front-end systems. And of course there is our Financial Technologies Team. Working on futures and other financial instruments of Blockchain Era, that will introduce additional value to the assets. The Proof of Asset Protocol itself is being developed as a Blockchain-Agonstic technology, and can be implemented on various blockchains, such as Ethereum, Hyper Ledger and so on. Currently we are primarily focused on the Ethereum network, because of its wide adoption. It provides us with the most powerful smart contract engine at the time. But even though our protocol is currently implemented on the Ethereum platform, being an agnostic protocol, it will later be adopted for most prominent blockchains. Creation of our own blockchain will be our next milestone. When it comes to data privacy, the first version of Proof of Asset Protocol is intended to be publicly available and publicly verifiable. Currently Ethereum provides no native methods to create private blockchains. So on the first stage assets will be completely public. On the next iteration we are going to use private capable blockchains The main technical advantage Is the use of IoT for asset validation and tracking, which can result in independence from the human factor in asset estimation and verification. 