 COHN: Good morning, everyone. So, I'm going to talk very briefly about Blockchain which is not an easy thing to do. How many of you are familiar with Blockchain? That helps. Okay. In my 35 years as a scientist here at IBM, I have never seen anything come from such obscurity -- this was developed, technology developed to exchange money by some young mathematicians -- into such a center stage. At its basis, Blockchain is a shared cryptographically unalterable ledger for recording the history of transactions. That's the definition. But like many things, it's really interesting to say what it's not, and what it's not is centralized. It's not owned by any one party. It is democratized, and that is the important thing because that -- to kind of build on what our previous panel was talking about -- it increases trust between parties because no one is on top. It increases accountability, and above all transparency, which we just heard so much about because with that kind of transparency, you can enable lower friction. If you look at what a current business environment is like, almost any multiparty thing where you have the producers, the finance, regulatory, warehousing, transport, retail, all of those right now use various ERP systems, various internal systems for maintaining their own records. As things move across that, people have different visions. Each party has a different vision of what the current state is. And there can be disagreements. Natural disagreements, et cetera. Not only that, but there's a lot of friction. Sometimes these are text messages or e-mails or worse, paper documents. So, there's a whole lot of inefficiency in this. It's expensive and it's vulnerable, anyone can change a record. So, what Blockchain does is it's a single database that everyone has an identical copy. And when I say everyone, we're talking about enterprises now. We're not talking about, you know, the wild west. IBM has invested a lot of energy in the last year and a half on something we call Hyperledger. It's a permissioned Blockchain, but it's designed for enterprise. And in that kind of environment, in this same trade cycle, every one one of the parties who agreed to be part of the consortium of this permission chain, get visibility to all of the data that they have permission...you know, within this party. That gives them the ability to see where their shipments are, what condition those shipments are in. Everybody has to agree on the current state of things. So, no one...there's never a chance of an argument. There is one state of truth that is distributed across every member. No member has priority. And there's permanence so that if there's ever any sort of debate or regulatory oversight or anything like that, there is a permanent unalterable record of that. Now, IBM has been one of the founding partners of the Hyperledger movement that we've done with the Apache organization. We now have over 110 member companies and hundreds and hundreds of projects going on around the world. Now, what's interesting is that most people think about Blockchain around financial. You know, mostly you'll hear about for retail or trade or censuses and things like that. But we at IBM believe that it is absolutely going to transform IoT, and the reason I say that is because I personally have been working in this area for quite a long time. For example, in something like shipping and logistics where you have, you know, one of those trade scenarios like this where you have a producer, it goes to a warehouse or it goes transport, et cetera, if you want to monitor where your shipment is and what condition it is, it's incredibly important to be able to do it. I'm pleased to say that we are now working with a consortium of the Baltics and Finland in a group called [Keno] out of [Kovolo], and this is actually one of the devices that we've built to help test. This device is actually real time, talking the last bit into the IBM Hyperledger region. So, this allows us to be able to track shipments all the way through, and this is a pretty exciting kind of thing. I do not suggest carrying this on an airplane in your baggage though, hasn't worked. But the similar thing, if you have mechanical, we saw about digital twin. When you have parts like an airplane that has literally millions of parts checking the provenance and the version control mechanically so that I can read the barcode off of every little thing and allow that to participate in a Blockchain transaction and have a permanent record is very, very good for version control and regulatory. For metering and control, things like electric meters or other devices that you want to be able to transact directly with, you can use Blockchain as directly in the hardware where you have an unalterable ID in the hardware and it allows you to make secure transaction. And finally, in supply chain, this is where we're going to hear from our guests. Now, all of you know what supply chain is but one that you participate in all the time is food safety. And we are very, very lucky today to have a guest who knows all about that from number one in the Fortune 100, Fortune one, the world's largest retailer, a company that serves over 240 million patrons every week. We are very, very lucky to have vice president for worldwide food safety, Frank Yiannas. Thank you very much. [ APPLAUSE, MUSIC ] YIANNAS: Well, good afternoon, it's good to see each and every one of you. I'd like to begin by thanking IBM for the invitation. At Wal-Mart, we get invited to do a lot of events; and quite frankly, we usually say no. But it was easy to say yes to this one because of the partnership and the value that we place on IBM. And secondly, you know, we think we're in the business of making the world a better place, and so we were encouraged to be in a room with so many people that are working to make the world a better place and this morning has delighted and inspired us. So, thank you. I'm here to talk about food. So, I want to thank IBM because at Wal-Mart, we have a humble culture. But I came in here feeling a little bit, you know, big headed, my go was feeling pretty good because they're letting a food safety guy talk right before lunch. [ LAUGHTER ] And I'm never allowed to talk before lunch, but I promise not to tell any gross stories. [LAUGHTER] If I asked everybody to raise your hand if you eat food, 100 percent of you would. But how many of you in your businesses in some way, shape, or form are involved or touch food? I'd like to see. It's pretty significant. It's pretty significant how many companies are in here that in some way, shape, or form are related to food. So, I want to talk to you about how food moves from farm to fork and how we believe Blockchain could be a disruptive technology to make that a safer, more sustainable, more efficient system. You've heard a lot today about how the world is changing. I mean, I was sitting there thinking if there was one word to describe this morning, what would the one word be? Speed? For me, change would have been one of them. Right? The world is changing very rapidly, and you have heard it in other sectors. Well, I will tell you that it's changing a lot in food. The reality is the food system has been changing since the beginning of time, but it's still continuing to change. I'm an adjunct professor at Michigan State University so I like to think a bit like an academic. I'm going to give you a 60 second history lesson on food production. The beginning of time, men and women, humans were mainly hunter gatherers. Weren't too concerned about supply chains, right? Because you just went out there and hunted your food, brought it back. I doubt you were concerned about food safety. This is real archeological evidence. It's a cave painting in France. Fast forward over time, men and women started to domesticate plants and animals around villages, mainly around water. Primarily focused on food production. You fast forward to the early 1900s, just a mere hundred years ago, and what did you see? The industrial farming revolution. Farmers able to produce more food than ever before to feed a growing population. In the top left-hand corner, what you see is a beef slaughter facility in Canada. And in the bottom right-hand side, what I had like to say, that's the first super center. Not a Wal-Mart super center but it is a retail shop in Chicago in the early 1900s. Probably a couple hundred square feet, probably a couple of dozen shelf staple foods. You fast forward to today's environment, what do you see? This is a Wal-Mart super center, but you see these all over the world. The modern grocery store. Thousands of food products frozen. Fresh fruits and vegetables from around the world. I love blueberries. When I was growing up, I got to eat blueberries one time a year. You know how many times I eat blueberries now? Weekly, because we have a global food system. Locally produced is important. Fresh meat, seafood, poultry. Home meal replacement solutions. Your grocery store today is looking a lot like food service, right? In the 1980s, the typical grocery store had about 15,000 food SKUs, food products. Today, your typical grocery store, how many foods to you think they have? Anybody want to guess? Greater than 50,000. I hear people saying, wow. And where do you think it's going? With e-commerce, where you can got online, order anything you want, anywhere, anytime. The endless store. A million food SKUs? Yes, that's in our near future. We heard about globalization. I know some people say I'm prolocal. The reality...did you drink coffee this morning? Do you eat bananas? It's hard to live on a strictly prolocal diet. I think it's fine to be proglobal and prolocal where all of the world feeds the rest of the world. Before joining Wal-Mart, I worked at the Disney company. I took a tiramisu desert served at one of the theme parks and I asked our staff, where did the ingredients come from? Let me just show you where it came from. Cocoa powder came from you Switzerland. Chocolate from Belgium. Cream from the United States. Mascarpone cheese from Italy. Kahlua from Mexico. More products from the U.S., Colombia and vanilla beans from Madagascar. This relatively you would say complex but simple dessert had the equivalent of 41,000 food miles. This isn't anything strange. I bet you if you did the same statistic on products you have eaten here today, it would be similar. And so the world and the food system is becoming more global. The benefits of today's modern system, I know you'll hear some people will be very critical of today's modern food system. The benefits of today's modern food system are profound. Fresh available products year round, nutritious at a fraction of your own dollar. Great thing. If you were to fast forward in time from the 1400s to a grocery store today, you would be in awe. You would think we all live like kings. There are some risks, though. In my view, the food system today has a lot of benefits. And those benefits outweigh the risks. But it does have an Achille's Heel. If you didn't gather, my last name is Yiannas. I'm of Greek descent. Greeks always have to sell something Greek in their presentations. So, it's a good way for me to work it in. But we do have an Achilles heel in the food system. If you studied Greek mythology, what did the stories say? When the mighty warrior Achilles was born, his parents grabbed him, wanted to give him invincible powers. They dipped him in the Styx River to give him these mighty warrior invincible powers. But they had to grab him by a certain point. The Achille's Heel, and that was his vulnerability. And I would suggest it's a perfect analogy when you think about today's modern food system. There are big companies, big suppliers, big countries that have an Achilles heel. And their Achille's Heel is traceability and transparency. Let me give you two case studies to persuade you and then I'll pivot and talk a little bit about the work we're doing at IBM. Spinach outbreak -- in 2006, in the United States, we had a spinach outbreak. You could see the numbers there reported by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 199 cases, documented cases. For every documented case, somebody had to be sick enough to go get tested and confirmed with E. coli. There were over 4,000 cases projected. 31 HUS -- HUS stands for Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome, severe kidney failure. Three deaths across 26 states. About 50 percent of the cases required hospitalization. Epidemiologists or public health professionals very early on said, hey, everybody that's sick has consumed bagged baby leaves of spinach. We know it's spinach. And we know it's a bacterium called E. coli 157. I wanted to put this picture up here because as we talk about food safety, I want you to know, don't get lost in these statistics because I know these statistics will not mean much to you. Remember, every one of these numbers have a face to them. This is a little girl named Riley who I met a couple of weeks ago. Shortly after her ninth birthday, pictured there in that photo, she contracted E. coli from this spinach. She progressively got worse. Her kidneys failed. I could have showed you photos of her hooked up to machines where they were doing kidney dialysis. She fortunately recovered, but some other patients didn't. FDA came out on September 16 of 2006 and said Americans, don't eat spinach, there's an outbreak going. You know what retailers and food service companies across the nation did? All spinach was pulled nationwide. You know how long it took FDA to trace back the source of that spinach to the original farm? Two weeks. For two weeks, there was no spinach served. And when it was all said and done, they found out that it was one supplier, one farm, one lot, one day production. An entire industry killed all the farmer's livelihood because they weren't able to trace and track efficiently. An Achilles' Heel, a major Achilles' Heel. Here another one. You might have heard of an outbreak that occurred in 2008 in the United States by a company called Peanut Corporation of America. This company produced two percent of the peanut paste, small volume, two percent of the peanut paste in the United States. Peanut paste is an ingredient that's used in a lot of other products. It had a knockoff effect. Because that ingredient was used in so many other products, you can see the dominos where the company started to fall. What you saw is anything that had granulated peanut from the supplier got recalled. Crackers that had peanut butter in it. Granola bars. Ice cream treats. Even pet food products had to be recalled. Cookies. Chocolate. By the time the dust settled, there were 3,913 different food products that had to be recalled because of a small manufacturer that produced two percent of the peanut paste. By the way, the big story with this one is their CEO Stewart Parnell got 40 years in prison for doing that, 40 years in prison. But guess what? Some of these recalls that you're seeing trickled as long as two months after they initial outbreak was detected. Could you imagine? For two months, contaminated products sitting on shelves because people didn't know that the ingredient was in their products. An Achilles' Heel to the food system. And this isn't unique to the United States. I could have beginning you examples here in Europe. You had an outbreak with E. coli and it was first assumed to be Spanish cucumbers and then it turned out to be sprouts. What are we doing about it? Let's get on the solution side of this equation. Wal-Mart and IBM are working on a pilot, two pilots, one in the United States and one in China where we're envisioning a fully transparent 21st Century digitized food system. It can be done, it needs to be done. It will be done. But to tell you about the pilot, I want to tell you a story. And it's the story about a life of a mango. How many of you have eaten mangos? Just very impressive. Just about everyone. And I want to tell you a story about the life of a mango and how it gets from that tree to our shelf. This is a beautiful package of sliced mangos that we sell in our stores and clubs across the United States. Mangos generally are grown...they might start from seedlings or graphs, but if it starts from a seedling, it takes that mango tree five to eight years to fully mature and bear fruit. More than just five to eight years; a lot of tender loving care, right soil conditions, weather conditions, fertilization, irrigation. But about five to eight years later that mango tree produced beautiful fruit. If you look to the right there, at a certain period of time, those mangos will be harvested by a harvest crew right before they have fully ripened because once you pick a mango, it can ripen within one to two weeks. Those mangos are grown by very small Farmers in our hemisphere either in Central or South America. They then get shipped to a packing house and the mangos get washed and boxed. If you look down, you can see then those mangos get transported by air, land or sea. And in our case, they cross the U.S. custom border and enter the United States where a processing facility in the U.S. takes those mangos, further washes, peels and slices them and puts them into containers. From those packages, those mangos then get shipped to a Wal-Mart distribution center where they get refrigerated. Wal-Mart distribution center, as stores place the order, will transport them across the country with our DCs strategically located across the country and enter the Wal-Mart store where they'll be refrigerated. At some point they'll be placed out on a refrigerated display case, because cut fruit has to be refrigerated. We hope many customers walk by that display case, pick up those mangos and put them in the grocery cart and then take them home and feed them to their loved ones. It's a pretty complicated journey, isn't it? When you pick up your mango, do you think of this complicated journey? More importantly, if you were to ask me, Frank, where did those mangos come from? And what if health officials said, hey, there's a food safety scare with mangos. Can you tell me where they come from? Well, I just gave you two case studies that to be able to trace those mangos from that grocery cart or home back to the farm generally takes days if not weeks. Well, IBM and Wal-Mart are envisioning we believe we can do that traceability in minutes, maybe even seconds; not days and not weeks. That's the goal. We also believe that we can move beyond traceability to what's called transparency. A word that you have heard here today. I think it's...the words we use are important so it's worth talking about, what is transparency. Traceability in the classic sense is one step up, one step back. This is the mango, where did it go? Where did I get it from? It defines attributes that are what, where and when? It was the mango, where was it? And on these dates, it was moved. And today, the way this is done in the food system and I suspect in a lot of supply chains, by disparate methods, mainly on paper and food. So, you can never have a long view of the food system. You can never have a long view; you have to piece it together. What we envision with transparency is that you can have an entire interconnected view of that system. You'll know the traceability attributes that we've just defined are important -- not that they're not important, but you can know more than just what where and when. More importantly, how was it produced? Was it organically grown? Was it sustainably grown? Was it responsibly sourced? What are the labor source that you use? Other attributes that any customer might know. Mangos today are not of a genetic modified variety, but what if they were? Is it a GMO product? Did you use pesticides in the growing of that product? And you could have interrelated insights that could yield to new information that would enhance how you produced food. This is an Infographic of the pilot we're doing in the United States with mangos and IBM. You can see that with Blockchain, we're collecting information at the farm. And today, we can do this. I will tell you, we've been pursuing the holy grail of traceability and transparency for 20 years. But with Blockchain and with smart devices in every farmer's hand, it can be done today. Ten years ago, it was an idea before its time. But it's totally doable today. Information captured at the packing house, transportation along that entire flow. And please note on the bottom left-hand corner, even sharing or communicating that information to the customer. Customer being able to scan a code on a package and know where that product came from, temperature conditions and any other attributes that they choose if they're interested in organic production. And so, that's the vision of the Blockchain pilot. What will that do? It will today we're after transparency. That's the goal. What's the opposite of transparency? Darkness, opaqueness. My favorite definition is anonymity. We've heard transparency used at least five times this morning. The opposite of transparency is anonymity. And is anonymity a good thing? When people are operating in an anonymous behavior, they disinhibit under desirable behaviors, right? Why do you want an ATM or teller machine in the dark? You don't, because that's anonymous; you want it lit up. We believe that Blockchain has the potential of shining a light on the food system, bearing transparency and that transparency driving appropriate self-desired behaviors. So, let me close real quickly with what we see the benefits of the Blockchain solution in the food system to be. Number one, enhanced food safety. For every one percent reduction of foodborne disease in the United States, it saves the U.S. economy $700 million. Fresher food. Everybody is after fresher food, right? Reduced food waste. Hasn't come up, a big social issue. A third of all food that's produced on the planet goes to waste. We've got to feed nine billion people by the year 2050. We can't produce our way out of this. We got to reduce food waste. And if you can optimize supply chain and reduce waste, that's a good thing for society. Deter food fraud. How many remember the horse meat scandal here in Europe a couple years ago? There were some frozen meals that said a hundred percent beef lasagna and guess what. There was no beef whatsoever; it was one hundred percent horse meat. Do you think that might be deterred with a solution like Blockchain where you have clear visibility and people get tracked and caught? Promote responsibility -- there's a difference between accountability and responsibility. We believe that shining the light on the food system will cause people to self-govern their behaviors. And lastly, this has come up. It will build consumer trust. Consumers today are less trusting. We're living in a global trust bust -- the less trusting of institutions, governments, politicians and the food system because they're so far removed from food production. Traceability and transparency in our view are two sides of the same coin. And so, with that, we want to thank IBM and all of you, ask you to join us in working towards a safer, more affordable sustainable food system so people can live better. Thank you very much. [ APPLAUSE ] 