 What is Blockchain? in order to simplify, imagine it like a bank register, but instead of being in a bank, it is spread among thousands of computers and no political or technological force, nor China nor CIA, can alter its functioning. Blockchain without Bitcoin? Blockchain without Bitcoin, in reality, is not totally an absurd. In what sense? To make an example, when I was studying computer science at high school, I studied internetworking protocols, meaning those protocols used to connect more computer networks together. This is something meaningless now. Nobody talks about internetworking protocols, only internet exists, and it is crazy to think about a protocol similar to the internet, doing the same things, but differently. There is only internet. It is the standard of computer communication. In my opinion, the same thing will happen to the bitcoin. Now we have the words cryptocurrency or blockchain, But, the only safe blockchain is that of bitcoin. In the best scenario, all the others are merely experimental projects. Bitcoin isn’t just a currency, it isn’t a product, or like a MySpace replaced by Facebook; it is more similar to the internet protocol, that can’t be replaced by anything, not even its own evolution. It’s 20 years we are trying to pass from the 4th version internet to the 6th version internet, and we are not really succeeding, even when all the actors are in favour of the change. This is the reason why, when I speak about the Blockchain, I mean the Bitcoin blockchain, because all the others are unreliable, apart from playing with them. On the other hand, even if lately, the media has been talking about blockchain without bitcoin, it is technically an absurd, because it is as if I tried to sell you dry water, I would be able to sell it, only if you didn’t know what water is. The same thing is the private blockchain. It’s something I can tell you about, only if you don’t know what a blockchain is. Why is it so important? It’s something that didn’t exist before. In reality, the currency is a very ancient “technology” that resolved the problem of interests during barter. Bitcoin is the fourth evolution of currency technology. The first one was based on leather, so, phisical goods like rare shells. Then, populations passed to metal era: gold, silver, electrum. Afterwards, also in Italy, banks were created, with bank-note, credit notes. Now, finally, we have a currency, not based on rare goods, on rare metal or on political strength of a country. But it is finally based on something that is incorruptible, like maths. In reality, it a bit more complicated than this, behind bitcoin there is the game theory, physics, economic incentives. We finally have the currency technology and we, as global population, own it. We have a currency based on work, not inflatable following political choices, but especially programmable. Bitcoin can be looked at as internet of value: a technology freely accessible, that disrupts what already exists, internet disrupted the market and communication and finally we have a technology that disrupts one of the mostly shielded industries, an avory tower like that of economic and financial industry. Without explaining in details, I can say that bitcoin besides being a currency not censurable and freely exchangeable across the world, it also achieve a new thing for mankind. It is an unalterable database, to simplify imagine a library of Alexandria which can not be burned. How did you come to Blockchain? I was involved for the first time in bitcoin during an event in Pordenone. They invited me to speak at a TEDx a kind of event, let’s say, facilitating the diffusion of new ideas and I finished the speech talking about bitcoin. At that time I was a researcher, I was involved with semantic web, at the FDK, which is a research center for what was once called artificial intelligence and even in the center I have dealt with bitcoin. Initially, as a search and then, I wanted to take care of these activities at my 100% ,.I also had the urge to simplify the access to technological products of blockchain and bitcoin. So I made a startup in Trentino that deals with consulting and develops services and products on bitcoin and blockchain. What is the future of blockchain? To make it simple, if we were in the 60s in front of a computer of that time so, a closet full of lights. How many people, seeing that computer, would have imagined Facebook or the fact that I can play a war game touching with my fingers on a glass screen playing with a Korean person? No one could have imagined. So, some things we can not imagine, e.g. to move bitcoin money is a superior technology in the sense that it is open 24h a day 7/7, 365 days a year If I have to make a transfer I don’t have to wait four or three days. It is another technology, in fact, everything that was done with traditional systems can be done with bitcoin more cheaply and easier. It will impact different industries from the supply chain, which is the industrial production chain, in which it may solve some problems and costs related to the transfer, the maintenance of trust that is needed in all economic transactions. And then also non-monetary applications of data security, data that I write on the blockchain, which would be the bitcoin register. The data remains stable over time, so it's kind of, a time capsule, that will have all applications where it is important that data is not altered. For instance the cadastre, land registers now, from paper passed to electronic documents, but if a hacker attacks the system where there is the land registry and takes control of the system, how do you know that it has not altered the data? You do not know because it may have also altered the data backup. But, if the data or its digital signature is registred on the blockchain we can show that the data was not altered. This is not an unreal case. It has already happened i n a state in South America where they had to consult the paper documents because they had the doubt that after a hacker attack the data were no longer reliable. So blockchain can save high costs. Moreover, besides the use in the Western world, a payment system you may use to buy shoes on amazon, in sale, maybe, through purse (this is interesting, read about it) Instead we need to consider that over 50% of the global population is without access to bank tools, and they won’t have them for numerous reasons including the fact that 2 billion people have no state identity and without the identity the bank will not enable you to use its services. The bitcoin, instead, can enable you its services because bitcoin does not care about your identity, As for the internet, it isn’t important who you are As in the internet, there is an exchange of digital information between two software, generally, bitcoin also is a value exchange between two programs, in general terms, bitcoin is the invention of digital non-duplicability. What does Inbitcoin? We realized that, imagining in this technological bitcoin tree in which there are mature fruits and immature fruits (Future technologies) on the highest branches. We realized that, most of those who have technical skills which are still only few, and understood the phenomenon were interested, rightly, I understand them perfectly to the highest branches, unripe fruits, those not yet ready, those who be ready in a few years. Those able to bring to market the bitcoin technology did not have the technical expertise. For this reason, InBitcoin, gathers these two categoris; the market knowledge, technical expertise, and the will to bring immature fruits, truly neglected by the bitcoin technical community, on the market, why? because those ripe fruits that for skilled bitcoiners seem uninteresting, for the market is pure fiction, as those of the lower branches. So our aim is to be able to simplify the access for non bitcoiners, so our products are for those who do not know what bitcoin is. We work for merchants to accept bitcoin in a simple manner but also, to train them, teach them on how to turn their bitcoiner customers, because they have a clear economic advantage. Bitcoin allows, as we said before, the disintermediation and disintermediation leads to cost reduction, so, clearly reduced costs for merchants and small and medium-sized enterprises. Nowadays, we could also provide service at large enterprises, it wouldn’t be a technology problem, it is a management problem. So for now we are only interested in small and medium enterprise, but this will change in the future. Another thing is to give the products to consumers so we have created a wallet, which will officially be released tomorrow which is ALTANA, a super secure wallet with a simple interface where some complicated functions were simplified and now are also more beautiful. 