 At the Innovation Center, visionary engineers and strategists are developing new products and applications. Now, innovators from Munich have discovered a topic more known to the financial sector : the block chain. Through chain-linking of data packages, this practice ensures traceability that is legally compliant. Well, we have just shown that block chain is a technology that can be applied to a variety of processes and different industries. Traceability is, for example, a key issue when it comes to supply chain management. There are obvious benefits to this technology. Together with our customers, we are currently in the process of developing solutions like these. To this end, T-Systems is working together with Roambee. The start-up sells a global track and trace solution. We have demonstrated how easily you can integrate this track-and-trace solution into our customer’s processes. We have developed a mock-up of a production plant, and in this simulation the individual components, the individual machines, the individual robots are controlled by block tile technology. With this we have demonstrated that the complete controlling software of the factory can be replaced. So far, so good. But what are the specific benefits of this solution? There is no benefit yet. The value of the Roambee solution is that you gain transparency. And what exactly was the intention of the showcase project with Roambee? The special nature of the project lies in the way we connected Roambee’s solution with our block chain for the manufacturing industry, and in how we combined the two different technological processes with each other. This will make it a lot easier for our customers, and we achieve traceability over different process steps by integrating them into the block chain. And this is the key competence of the Innovation Center: Simply doing things and combining fresh approaches with new strategies. And how do you go on from here? That is a very good question, and, to be honest, we don’t know the answer yet. What we did is, we demonstrated that it’s technically feasible. And we are discussing it with our customers. The customers are listening very closely, and are asking very interesting questions and we are discussing how to conduct pilot projects at our customers’ to test what it really means, what are the implications when we deploy it at our customers’? That’s what we are doing at the moment. 