 What is Blockchain? Why is it important? Blockchain has been described in numerous different ways, but, actually, it simply is a trustworthy clock, managed by thousands of parts around the world, without a central identity able to change the time. I define it as a clock, meaning that Blockchain primary purpose differs from storing and sending information, Internet already does it; it also differs from certifying the information source, the digital signature does this; its aim is to certify the timeline and order of some messages. Thanks to this potentiality, basically of being a clock, the Blockchain enables to distributed networks not only to exchange messages and to exchange signed messages, something they could already do, but it enables them, for the first time, to exchange signed messages agreeing on their order. In this way, the Blockchain not only can send information as they already did in Internet without the Blockchain, but it can finally transmit value. The difference here is huge: a piece of information is something I can send, it multiply endlessly every time I send it, property or value, on the other hand, is something that if I give it I lose it, and so the receiver, they can give it, losing it. Therefore, value is scant, and based on scarcity it is possible to create contracts, exchanges, trade, incentives and disincentives. Before the Blockchain, such thing didn’t exist in the digital world. The Blockchain was the missing invention, to bring the scarceness of the physical world, the gold coins, in the digital world that was lacking of this feature. It is important, because now the digital world can disrupt all those sectors/markets trapped, regulated, controlled by monopolies or inefficiencies. Internet is already doing this in different markets, but it couldn’t do it best in the trade and financial markets, because in those you don’t only exchange information but also value. The internet, therefore, is limited in this, it had to rely on central bodies, easily controllable and banned. Thanks to the Blockchain, instead, an internet of value was created which is unmodifiable, uncontrollable and irreproachable. What is the Blockchain future? Blockchain future, which is the Bitcoin future, as the packet switching TCP protocol for internet is only one, even if there could be many, but everyone uses 1 network protocol; in the same way, the Bitcoin is the Blockchain that is trying the network effects, allowing it to become the universal mean for the internet of value. In the future, it will very likely become something that will govern the saving, saving protection, value reserve markets. Basically, a family in any part of the world, initially, will be able to protect their savings, and a big investor, afterwards, will be able to fight inflation or protect themselves from the risks with the banks, if it will happen a financial collapse, like in 2008, when some counterparts are not trustworthy. Thanks to the Blockchain, in these occasions, some counterparts will be free to manage their value reserves. As far as the payments are concerned, especially those that are more under control like international payments, which are subordinated to lots of ups and downs or bans or other kind of frictions created on geopolitical matters, or like payments made for freedom matters, as donations to wikileaks, that can be done in other ways, or e-commerce payments where it is hard to build trust in your counterpart, in fact, we are obliged to interact with a limited number of people. Thanks to Blackchain and the Bitcoin, with don’t need to entrust our counterpart to make a payment, and therefore, it is the perfect currency for the e-commerce. In the future, we can imagine also a real disruption of the financial market, therefore, automate contract without a central counterpart, automate insurance, so we can imagine the entire financial sector free from a central control. How did you get to the Blockchain? I started working with the blockchain for two main reasons. Firstly, for the economic and social implications of this technology, as the Bitcoin is the first asset governed independently from the banks, from the inflation and value manipulation point of view, and also governed independently from controls, meaning transaction control and Orwellian control on our financial freedom. Secondly, for the technical approach. The blockchain is a technical tour de force, as it continues to expand opening new frontiers, it is an enabler. In reality, it is a small technological innovation, and a big economic one, but it enables a number of different innovations that were impossible before it. I put these two factors together, my passion for economics and permissionless economic innovations and my technological passion for new payment and fintech systems, and I saw they combined in the bitcoin, but that for social and image reasons we now must call it Blockchain. What is Blockchainlab? It’s a bridge connecting two worlds. One is the world today, whatever structure characterises it, it is full of resources and knowledge of the market, industries; it is full of people working on these systems that need to be improved and moved towards the future. Therefore, it is a world that has resources but searches for a knowledge hard to find, as this technology is still new, and the knowledge is owned by few people all around the world, who have a mindset that make them unapproachable, as they are very much against the system, the best ones at least. On the other hand, there is the world of the experts characterized by the need of a structure and an inability of finding interoperable standards and of understanding the business needs. They have their own ideology, that covered the business dynamics. These are two worlds in need of each other, but they are unable to directly cooperate, they avoid to interact. The financial industry usually employee the rejects in the blockchain sector, and the experts prefer to work with the marginal parts of the financial sector. Therefore, Blockchainlab wants to be the bridge guaranteeing to the experts shared spaces, exchange of important information on projects and economic resources. It guarantees to the businesses, in exchange of those goods for the blockchain experts’ community, updated information, they can’t find anywhere else. This information is constantly updated, with a technical in-depth, on how the technology works and how it will evolve in the next ten years. What is the Bitcoin Meetup? It is called “Bitcoin”, but this evening we have mostly spoken about Ethereum and Easy Cash, so, we are open to different innovations that followed the bitcoin in the world of the Blockchain. As a consequence, there is a certain openness that goes beyond the specific protocol. We reached the 36th edition, if I remember correctly, of these monthly meeting. During the past months, many global experts have been to our lab, Adam Becker, Rusty Russell, Matt Corallo, Sipa, Joseph Lubin, Elizabeth Stark, Peter Todd, Ryan Shi, almost all of the most relevant names for the innovation in this sector, have been here and talked at a public meetup. 