 All right welcome back, second half of our program includes a fascinating panel discussion. We've got six panelists who represent very diverse industries, background experiences, even perspectives in how they view blockchain and related technologies. I will hand, the panelists, the panel will be led by our moderator Doctor David Krause. And they will discuss where the puck is moving from the perspective of adoption of blockchain in a variety of industries. Dave Krause is Assistant Professor of Practice in Finance at Marquette. Since 2004 Dave has served as a director of a very prestigious Applied Investment Management program that allows a select group of finance majors to get hands on academic and financial analysis experience, including an opportunity to actively manage domestic and international equity and finance income portfolios. Dave will moderate the panel til the end of this session today. Dave it's over to you.  Thank you Monica. [ Applause ] Hello everyone and welcome again to the Milwaukee Blockchain Conference and the Marquette University. I personally found that the first sessions to be very informative, enlightening. I certainly learned a lot, I hope you did too. I teased Lamont before he came on stage that he had a tough act to follow. Wow, do I have a tough act to follow with both of those. I saw Lamont signing autographs in back okay. Is he still here because I got news for him, [inaudible] actually had forward contracts with we'll refer to as futures before Chicago. Okay. I've done that research about by 18 months so we're closely aligned with Chicago, very good to hear all the positive things that are taking place in our respective areas here and with regard to technology so. Very exciting opportunities for all of us to work together. All right so you're wondering what in the world is a finance guy doing with a distinguished tech panel that we have here. Well one thing about finance that most of us know as we have to be forward looking. As investors we have to invest our money today. But it's based upon future performance. So we very much care about disrupted technology. We want to be investing in companies that aren't going to get overrun by Amazon. We want to own the future of Google's. So we're very interested in learning more about blockchain. So I for one don't have answers, but I have lots of questions and I know you're likely to as well. So where did that concept of following the puck come from? I try to explain this to my students, they don't know who Wayne Gretsky is anymore, but he was the great one. Greatest hockey player of all time. Scored at a prolific rate. Undoubtedly the best player at that sport we've ever seen. And very humble guy but he was attributed with this quote once asked about his success. When he said, I skate to where the puck is going, not where it's been. That's what we're trying to do here and that's sort of why the theme here, where's the puck going? Where's blockchain going? A lot of interesting things taking place right now, it's great to get the history of where bitcoin and blockchain came from. I care more about 2018 and 2019 and 2020 right now. I think a lot of you do as well, with regard to your companies and your careers. I don't know if you heard the bumper music that was being played, all right that was a Dillon song and there was also Guns N' Roses all right. So what's the significance of that? Well first of all like Dillon said, the times they really are changing. I think there's a seed change activity taking place that's going to disrupt the natural services, healthcare, the legal profession and on and on including higher ed. And then why the Guns N' Roses? Well as you know Axl Rose and Guns N' Roses were in town this week, they performed for over three hours, nothing like good Milwaukee work ethic right? But as we well know from their most famous song in lyrics, where do we go now. And that's really what I want our panel to be doing for us right now. Trying to help us figure out where do we go now. So what we're going to do, I'm going to start out with a question for each, I'll do an introduction of each of our guests and then I'll start out with a question. We'll work our way through the panel, sort of rinse and repeat, work through the six guests that we have here and we really want to open it up to you the audience. I thought there were great questions asked by many of you during the first sessions here, we'll have plenty of time for you to talk these people. We're very knowledgeable about blockchain, particularly with respect of industries. So again being true to apply we can dig a little deeper than just generalities, we can get into some of the industries. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to start with our first expert panelist Bob Cornell. Bob is the Lead Emerging Technology Analyst at Northwestern Mutual. Bob joined Northwestern Mutual in 2016 and works in research and digital innovation. As part of his role he is the primary blockchain researcher for NML. Which is a fortune 100 company located in Milwaukee. Prior to joining Northwestern he held positions in corporate strategy, business development and competitive intelligence. And Bob was a part of that MNA team that did over $2 billion of healthcare software related acquisitions. He's an active investor, he currently holds five issued patents with four others in a pending status. So it's a pleasure to have Bob here. So where do you go, how's your cold?  I'm doing better, I might be a little froggy.  All right. Okay. So Bob it's been said that blockchain is going to do for the financial system what the internet did to media. It's going to facilitate, enable the movement of money and contracts similar to what the internet did to media and data. So Bob this is a real general question, I think it's fair to start since your background is being the primary researcher for NML. Is this really a game changer? I mean are we, you know is this something that is going to happen but maybe not as fast we think it is? You know how quickly is this coming? I don't think from what I heard today that this is fake news, I think it's real. But sort of the question is, where is this headed? And you can put it in the context of your experiences maybe with NML.  Sure. Everybody hear me okay?  Yes.  Okay fantastic. Great to be with you this morning. I think it was Bill Gates that said, we tend to underestimate the, overestimate the amount of change in what happen next year or two, underestimate the amount of change what happen in next ten. I think that's a truism when it comes to blockchain distributive ledger. So I, like the introduction said I've been with NM since 2016, very early 2016. Very focused on the space and so this has just kind of been anecdotal observation, but I really noticed in a reflection point, probably mid this year. 2016 it seemed like there were niches where this was starting to bruise some interesting levels of interest. But, moving into to 2017 it seems like the fact that we can fill a hall like this, couple of weeks ago I was in Chicago. There was a similar hall filled, it was over capacity, they had turned 60 people away. The momentum is growing, I think the realization of what the potential here is or what it could be, is growing and is getting some traction there. I think it would be fair to say that yes this is going to have that kind of transformational potential for kind of the fabric of local commerce. But, there's some other hindrances, I'll call them speed bump I guess, on that path. So think along the lines of regulatory patchworks, regulatory uncertainty. That's something that isn't really clear at this point. Some regulars come out and issued some guidance but, I would challenge do any of you feel comfortable that you have a crisp view of the regulatory environment with which you would have to interact with confidence. I would presume that the answer of probably no or I'm not sure. Also the fact that there's the lack of real inoperable standards between different chains. That's something that really needs to be worked through as well. So those are just some high level kind of yes the potential is there, but we have some speed bumps and kind of near intermediate term that we would have to overcome as well to really reach that.  Yeah I know and Northwestern Mutual is not a publicly traded company. And so I'm not going to get in trouble at the SEC for asking you to reveal non-public material information but, what ways is this going to find its way into the insurance industry?  It's a fair question. I think that is still an open question, I haven't cracked that, I'm not sure people have. So I think you're probably going to see it nip around the edges. So potentially and this is not an NM statement, this is just a Bob observation, kind of a hypothesis here but, things around facilitating payments, whether that's payment of premiums, something like that, the discussion around the fees associated with credit cards was mentioned earlier. The fact that you can transmit currency funds, assets, whatever you want to call them, seamlessly with a very low cost. That's probably one of the first ways that you would might see it start entering.  All right. Thanks Bob, we'll move on to our next panelist Bill Caraher. He's a Chief Information Officer of von Briesen and Roper, a Milwaukee area law firm. He has over 20 years of experience managing and supporting technology within his enterprise. As the Chief Information Officer and Director of Operations, Bill's passionate about innovation and business focus technology solutions that empower the firms attorneys and support their clients. Under his leadership von Briesen was the first Wisconsin law firm to implement artificial intelligence with IBM Watson Based Solutions. The firm is researching uses for blockchain and related emerging technologies to keep ahead of the curve. As a Marquette alumnus Bill's currently an adjunct instructor in the College of Business and is created and taught course on technology at Marquette's Law School. Recipient of various technology awards, Bill was most recently named Chief Information Officer of the year, did I slip and say investment officer?  Information.  Okay good. That's my asset management background sneaking in here. Chief Information Officer of the year by the Milwaukee Business Journal. All right Bill pleasure to have you here. It's been said that one of the industries that's likely to be the most impacted by blockchain is the legal profession. With smart contracts we know that the potential for basic legal services, such as writing wills and trusts and participating in real estate transactions, might actually disappear or blockchain might supplant. We also know that regulatory and other issues are going to crop up that will probably create an increased demand for legal expertise in the area of blockchain. So help us understand more about how blockchain is going to impact your life in the legal industry.  Great thank you, happy to be here as well. And I'm also a DePaul alumni so for [inaudible], that was my undergrad. So in the legal industry I got a bunch of notes here, I don't want to forget anything but we're, we're kind of at year zero or maybe year minus one when it comes to blockchain. Like academia, legal tends to follow or not be a leader and that's intentional. You know we are in the area of law, we're interpreting the laws, we're defending the laws and the laws are definitely also behind technology, you know when you think of even the communications act and how far behind that is with social media and everything else so. You know what we're at a disadvantage when it comes to that, but not first to market movers and that's okay, Apple is usually not first in market either. So I see legal with two specific paths and opportunities when it comes to blockchain. So first I see solutions. Solutions that make the legal process and the serving of clients better, more efficient, adding value to clients. And then the second would be the opportunities and challenges within the law itself. And the shifts in expertise so, lawyers that had previously done basic contract law may shift their expertise into blockchain smart contract law, something like that. So first, so the applications and solutions. I would say you know there's tons of thousands of law firms. Every company of any size is also engaged with either corporate internal council or they have outside council so, lawyers are driving a lot of business regardless of you know your thoughts on the industry. But you need representation even if you're a startup using Legal Zoom you are involved in the legal industry and consumer of legal services. So how are, you know they're already being disrupted with things like Legal Zoom. Kind of feeding back here. In the context of blockchain there's hundreds of startups already trying to compete for this not of smart contracts, how do we authenticate users, how do we record transactions in a blockchain situation so. We don't just want to forget that there's, you know the startup movement in legal there are hundreds of established vendors already providing legal solutions and applications to law firms in corporate legal departments so. Those vendors and solution providers are not sitting idol, they're already developing solutions as well, so we have a startup space focus on legal, we have the established vendors focused on legal, all coming up with great ideas and suggestions. Now the smart contract, just a walk through because we haven't really stepped through a scenario, but let's take the example of a will or an estate plan. So, traditionally you meet with an attorney, they go through a questionnaire, okay you have assets and you want to distribute those assets at the point of your death. In a smart contract situation you also answer those questions but the contract itself would distribute the assets, you wouldn't have to meet with a trustee, you wouldn't have to meet with the attorney after your family members wouldn't have to meet after your death. The contract could execute your wishes automatically. Now that's kind of scary territory when you think about it, so you've got a contract that is waiting for you to die. And waiting and waiting and waiting. Okay. And how do you authenticate someone's death? You know the recording of death certificates in the government processes, you know we're back to centralized government, maintaining authentication on your death. Okay so we have to solve that problem first, how do we authenticate your death? And then the contract will go out and validate that death has occurred and now execute based upon that. So that's distributing, removing money from accounts and distributing wealth to other accounts, they're taking assets like homes and vehicles and changing title automatically and registering it to the, it's a very complicated thing when you think about it. So if you ever hear someone saying, yeah we're in a law firm we're using smart contracts, well ask them more questions because in a context of a will or an estate plan, this is a very complicated process and I guarantee that there's no law firm out there doing smart wills like this. The technology just isn't there yet to authenticate all of these little steps so. There's a lot out there, but when we talk about smart contract our firm has been using smart contracts for over ten years. But it's not tied to the blockchain. So smart contracts in the fact that just in this example, we do, it's almost like follow the story, so you do an interview with someone and say I want my wealth to be distributed in this way and this regard but okay you have to ask the question are you married or you single? Okay that opens up different sections of the document, if you're single then these steps get applied, if you're married and what state you live in? What state are you registered in? Okay then these sections of the contract are, so we already that have technology and it's just applying it to blockchain technology. So great examples with you know challenges and what's going on. That second opportunity and I'll just wrap up quickly, because I don't want to take everybody's time but, it's the changes in the law. And the changes in case law, the changes in statutes and the changes in expertise of the legal individual that you go to, your attorney. So we've talked about today blockchain is a trust framework right? The attorney client relationship is also a trust framework when you think about it. You tell your attorney secrets that you don't want anyone else to know. And attorneys are bound by the attorney client privilege. By law they cannot disclose those secrets that you have told them to anyone else. And so that's a trust relationship, so if we're now transferring that trust relationship to something like the blockchain. Even something as minute as an engagement letter. You come to me you want to me represent you as your attorney, I'm going to fill out a letter that says you and I agree that now I'm your attorney. If I file that letter that has no detail other than you come to me for legal representation, I save that to the blockchain, that's now a public record. If I'm Rockwell [inaudible] and I want to sell my company to ABC Corp, I filled out an engagement letter on the blockchain that's public information about a public company. That could be scary right? Okay it's encrypted, well great who has the keys? So these are questions we have to think about when we say we're going to start engaging the blockchain in a very private and confidential relationship. These are challenges we have to think about and overcome before we say, yep we're turning over our law firm and our confidential information to this system, whether it's open, closed, public, private. These are questions that have to be answered so, lots of challenges, very excited to be here and look forward to more discussion.  All right. Thanks Will. For all of you, he teaches a course in the Law School and in the Business School so. Glad to have you on our side. And Lamont, you know once I looked like you. I use to be six three and have hair, handsome and all that, it's a good one. Some day you'll be in this position. [ Laughter ] Our next expert is Michael Adam, he's the Chief Executive Officer of Bankmybiz and the founder of DocLaunch. He's a seasoned FinTech entrepreneur with a passion for innovation. In 2013 Michael founded bankmybiz.com, an online lending platform that partners with traditional banks nationwide to help them better serve their small business banking customers. In 2015 Michael founded DocLaunch, a software solution that's streamlines corporate electronic documentation, signature, identification, the payment processing. DocLaunch is among the first enterprise level software solutions that uses blockchain and distributed ledger. And it's used in the banking and financial services industry. Michael consults with banks across the globe on technology strategy and prior to launching his company he spent a decade as a commercial lender specializing in technology. So Michael I think this is an industry that's right in the cross hairs right now. I mean blockchain we've heard can untangle the web of loan documentation, it can shift global payments onto the blockchain, it can digitize, modernize global trade finance and it can improve identity verification of customers and counter-parties. In other words it's going to transform the whole banking industry it sounds like. What do you think about that? Can you enlighten us on banking and the blockchain?  Yes absolutely. Thank you for having me here. So it's very interesting because in a lot of industry we talk about blockchain as what will happen. In banking I think we're in a unique place because we could talk about what is already happening. So the banking and financial institutions industry, this technology is already being implemented. I'm sure many of you have heard our three consortium, which is a large group of corporations from the top banks in the world being part of that. They're looking into creating their blockchains already. So if you think in the financial institution, there are, depending on the size of the bank, even a community bank, there are thousands and thousands of documents and transactions that happen daily. And to put in a simple context if you think of just like a small scale scenario, if you have bank a, bank b and bank c. And they're all working with one customer. So you might have a mortgage here, a car loan there, some investment products here. So there's a tangled web of interactions between all those. The banks don't and they're not sharing that information right now. In fact if you apply for, has anybody here applied for a small business loan every? Or any type of loan and you needed a personal financial statement? And you went to one bank they said, your personal financial statement must be filled out on our associated bank letterhead. And then you go to another bank they say, your personal financial statement must be filled out on our JP Morgan letterhead. Why? I have my personal financial statement, I'm just writing down the same thing. So, in this tangled web we have all these interactions and that's just three banks and one person. Nothing globally you have hundreds of thousands of banks and billions of customers. What the banks want to do is have this information seamlessly interact with each other. They want to talk to each other, not only for their own purposes, but for the purposes of customers, while they want to have the customers user experience be better. As far as global payments, this is something that's also already in existence so the Royal Bank of Canada is now experimenting with some blockchain payment movements with, between the United States and Canada. So that technology is already existing and will become more robust as the technology develops. You mentioned global trade, this is also something, it's not speed of payments, but it's speed of I guess ownership and transfer. So in the 1920's the New York Stock Exchange we talk about a t plus five, so a transaction plus five days. And that's where, that's where we were in the 1920's. And then in 1995ish we went to t plus three, miraculously why? Because the internet came around, so that allowed us to take our, reduce our time of the transfer of ownership and payment of that, of that stuff, we made it much faster. With blockchain where we're thinking it's going is hopefully be a t plus zero. So it'll happen instantaneously, so it's going to have a huge effect on the global market and global trade. Which is all very interesting. Identity verification, I know Mark talked about it, you know quite extensively. It's giving power back to, to you the individual. Hopefully at one point you'll be able to just hold all of your records and have all of your information and give it to whoever you think is worthy of it. So let's say you fill out a small business loan application. You've already done all the paperwork, just like I said with the personal and financial statement, you have to give a bank a personal financial statement to your business tax returns, to your personal tax returns, up to data p and l and some other supporting financial documents. You have to do that every time you apply for something. The same documents will apply some of those will apply if you need a car loan. Same documents will apply if you're looking at some type of investment of vehicle, sometime financial institution. So if we put all this on, I won't say distributed ledger because it's going to be a private ledger in this industry for a while until it gets to scale, but that makes this transfer of document so much easier and for you having your digital identity makes it so much easier for you the consumer because you're not having to dig up and drudge up this information all the time. So how is it going to affect banking? I think it's really going to affect banking and that's where we're concentrating on with DocLaunch, I mean our whole, whole mission is to, one streamline the efficiencies of the banks. But also making the user experience for the bank customers better and by using and implementing blockchains and smart contracts and payment solutions.  All right thank you Michael. One of my colleagues is in the audience, Doctor Kent Belasco who is the Director of our relatively new commercial banking program. And I know that come January I believe we're going to have another forum, somewhat like this, but focused on the impact of technology in the world of commercial banking so. Stay tuned for that, we're going to continue to offer opportunities like this to advance our knowledge. Our next expert is Girish Ramachandran, Senior Manager from Market and Solutions at WIPFLI. An accounting and business consulting firm with offices throughout the United States. Girish is one of the leaders within WIPFLI's technology consulting division. Focused on helping companies transform their business through technology. Leveraging in his experience and knowledge of FinTech he helps financial institutions, FinTech startups, an investor to collaborate and establish sound business working models. Let's see Girish you know I've heard that supply chain is going to be one of the areas that is going to be most quickly impacted by blockchain. Can you talk about that? I know you have a world of business experience and then also we haven't, we've mentioned cyber security a few times, but not yet in the context of this discussion so, feel free to address either or both of those topics.  All right. So WIPFLI is an accounting and consulting firm and I'm a technology consultant and I'm having the best of times a technology consultant could have in accounting firm. The reason why, because I think accounting and audit is going through a most exciting time in the last 600 years, since the end of 15th century, after the double entry bookkeeping was invented. Today the reason why WIPFLI got interested in blockchain is, you know somewhat out of a fear that, you know I think Lamont was mentioning you know, if everything is, if blockchain is going to deliver everything that it is promising, then perhaps the government is going to tell you how much tax you owe or how much refund you owe and the government is going to give a tax to you back. Only thing in accounting, if everything is going to be on blockchain, well in ten to 15 years yeah we might see a significant change. All right that's about my time in WIPFLI. So, coming to supply chain, you know WIPFLI works in multiple industries so supply chain, logistics, manufacturing is one of the biggest industries that we work with. Before I go into very specifics of supply chain, you know how many of you here really are serious about your coffee? All right, there you go. So what I meant was, how many of you are serious about how it is dried, how it is roasted, where it is sold and what kind of labor was used to source coffee? And how it is supplied to your end point? And how many of you here are serious about, the pattern you are wearing is not manufactured using some unethical means or child labor or whatever, how many of you are serious about it? Well some of you are. And so it seems, a significant number of millennials are really serious about the products that we are using. Whether they are produced using ethical means, whether they are produced using the corporate standards they are met. And I believe blockchain is going to make a significant impact in the way the, in the way that it is ensured that, you know whatever we are consuming today, you know they're made using some corporate standards that are generally acceptable. The multiple uses of blockchain that I see in generally in supply chain, the biggest is you know to make sure that the corporate standards are met. Second biggest use I see is, you know reducing of cost, you know already using the use of counterfeit products and the malpractices related in gray market. Making sure your outsourced manufacturing contracts are met properly. Reduction of paperwork, so that, so on and so forth. So, essentially wherever there is a centralized trust based authority or whatever that is very complex way of tracking in practice today. Blockchain can be used to gain efficiencies. So supply chain perfectly fits the, you know where there is complex regulations, wherever there are really complicated needs of monitoring and traceability. Wherever there is a need for better transparency, where's a better demand for transparency. So that's where the blockchain is going to play a key role in supply chain. One of the best case studies that we heard recently, some of you already may be aware of that. But Deloitte partner with, I think it's DNV GL to put about 90,000 shipping certificates on blockchain. So an option of blockchain is already happening in supply chain. People are pretty serious about, you know already using paperwork and all the other reasons that I just mentioned, their traceability and transparency are going to be pretty big. So, those are my views of supply chain for using blockchain on supply chain.  Okay. Thank you Girish. Well, give the people what they want all right. I'm going to introduce Will Pangman who's the founder of Bitcoin Milwaukee and a partner in Taurus Vision. Will's a passionate entrepreneur, he's an active proponent of bitcoin education and boy do a lot of us need to get schooled up on bitcoin in a hurry and everything, crypto currencies. All right Will, blockchain, crypto currencies, initial coin offerings, ICO's, I'll admit I'm a finance professor and I'm still struggling with the ability to explain the value of a crypto currency. Whether it's an asset or a payment stream. How in the world these ICO's are being created, the other thing that's going on, it's very difficult for me, evaluation expert, to try to explain $7,500 for a bitcoin. I have enough trouble trying to explain gold and commodity pricing, let alone bitcoin. And then feels like a bubble at times, somethings going on right now. Two companies in the last week have added the name blockchain to the name of their company. One is up 400% and the other is up 200%. And some of you remember the dot com bubble, where is all you had to do was add a dot com to your name. In fact if you lost money that was even better than if you made money. Kind of feels a little frothy here Will, help me out all right.  Yeah hi, it's good to be here. Everybody this is a just a wonderful event so congratulations to all the organizers I'm thrilled to be here. Such a great group of panelists and other speakers as well. It is frothy right now, it's easy to see. My view is that there's still tremendous head room in this current cycle. And there's lots of thoughts and reasoning's for that but just to get right down to it, you know the valuation questions is really important. I thought, you know Lamont's slides were really excellent at talking about where bitcoins value comes from. And if you were inferring that from some of his slides I think that was helpful to a great degree. Really it comes from a lot of areas, you know it comes from the fact that it's mathematically secured as opposed to by decree. It comes from the fact that it's distributed around the world, it's unkillable. It comes from the fact that there's a network affect so. You know on Facebook for example you guys are, anyone on Facebook is a user of Facebook, but Facebook has a business model and you're a part of it. You're actually a product in their business model. So and they've done a fantastic job of attracting users to this network and providing value to users, you know as a new stream, as a connection to old friends, making new friends around the world, joining communities you could've never been a part of before. So blockchain, bitcoin really inspired all this, this is a way to derive network affects so. Jumping all the way ahead to kind of ICO's, same thing. People who have an idea where they are intending to create a kind of platform economy for an application or for some big project concept they have, it makes a lot of sense if you're going to kind of create your own economy with, you know with your user base and your network to launch your own money. And you know it's, analyzing the industry of this again, some of Lamont's were excellent on this but, there's a lot of value in the network, not just in getting people to pay to use things but getting them to be on the platform. And so I think if you look at the valuation of bitcoin in that light, and if it's going to reach even 5% of the promises it has offered so far, there's a huge upside. You know there's probably maybe ten million users of bitcoin in the world today, maybe that's a little low, but active users is what I'm saying. And if you think about that number, crypto currencies as a whole maybe like another three or five million on top of that who aren't maybe interested in using bitcoin. But so we've 15 million users actively probably. There's tremendous upside from valuation side of things there. Of course ICO's are getting a lot of notoriety and infamy perhaps probably because of just, much like the dot com bubble there is so much interest out there. People are throwing everything they can at the wall to see what sticks. So, really I want to just kind of talk a little bit about ICO's and then close with just some kind of thoughts and maybe suggestions for the group. But, there's tons of opportunity here and there's tons of scams. And there's a lot of non-scams that are just bad ideas. And don't need a token and you know it doesn't apply for the business. But and that's what we're seeing today but, tokens can do lots of things. You know in order to be compliant some of these projects are registering their token as a security. Because that's the way they want to use that token in their platform. There's limitless ways to use tokens to do things in a platform and so this is another huge green pasture. And the SEC guidance that came out a couple months ago basically, you know gave a blank check to all these entrepreneurs saying if you are creative and you're going to do your best to not be a security or if you are register, there's tons and tons of ways to apply this technology. So, it is a huge green pasture and it is very frothy and bumpy right now. On Monday we had, we, the ecosystem saw 400 new ICO's launch on Monday. So next Monday it may be more and Q1 of next year it will be more and that's not stopping you'll see existing companies launching tokens like you saw with the Kick Messenger app and there's some others. And there's some interesting things you'll see with the crowd funding space and regulated crowd funding, if anyone's familiar with title three or the Jobs Act. This is something that was a really good thing actually in the US. To allow entrepreneurs to, you know to allow average people to get access to high performing investments like, ventures, new ventures. And also to allow entrepreneurs to get access to the crowd where they otherwise are trudging up sand hill road and striking out a lot. So this is, this is excellent for that reason as well, ICO's kind of puts that on steroids and to the moon and everything right? So, the I guess there's ways to do this regulatory compliant in the US, as a US founder. And there's a number of ways that will become new ways to do this as well, I would like to see title three of the Jobs Act, I'd like to see someone tokenize an offering on title three so, just give you some ideas. And yeah so, in closing ICO's are not going away, the bubble is probably going to blow up bigger and if you're involved, that's what the work I do now, I consult with companies on this and help them kind of from idea to exit with these kinds of designing these sorts of raises. This is a new investment vehicle and it's going to be fascinating to see how much value it unlocks and how much wealth it creates so.  Good. Thank you Will we're all gaining a lot of knowledge today in different areas. I'm involved with the Make A Difference Wisconsin group as I know a number of you are in the room. We've gone into under-served communities to try to educate middle school and high school students about proper physical management, financial literacy. And think about it we're going into these classrooms talking about checks and check registers. I mean I think version 2.0 we need to be going into our schools and educating about current currencies and current electronic and other payment practices, so Will I'm going to solicit your support for that and get you involved okay, so thank you. Wow Derek you know I did the math, I could be your grandfather, you know that?  That's depressing. [ Laughter ]  And look at this he's the only one with a tie on all right.  I got to make up the age difference.  Derek's a UWM undergrad, he's a finance student, he's a Chief Financial Officer of Coinigy. He's not even old enough to legally drink, notice I said legally Derek. Okay. His firm Coinigy is a blockchain capital markets company. It's a leading professional trading platform for blockchain exchanges around the world. With over 200 million in assets controlled and one billion in July trading volume alone, Coinigy has grown to be a trusted brand by thousands of users globally. Besides his firm in 2015 he was one of the earliest team members at storage. A decentralized cloud storage network utilizing blockchain technology. I always bring speakers into my classroom, I'm a applied professor, I brought Derek in about a month ago and it was fascinating. I mean Derek talked about blockchain technology, having profound effects on the future of financial markets, capital fundraising, product and business models and networks. So Derek talk a little bit about Coinigy, don't do a blatant ad here okay. You're not out fundraising are you?  No.  Okay good.  Unfortunately not.  I don't want to violate any securities laws. But you know talk about some of the recent events too, the CME and other exchanges now going to create bitcoin and other crypto currency indices. You know bring us up to speed on what's going on in that part of the market.  Yeah, so Coinigy started in 2014. It was basically like I said kind of aggregation tool for all the exchanges around the world. Just this month we broke, not we but the ecosystem as a whole we're approaching EPI market values, in terms of volume. About 300 billion dollars the markets expanding. Coinigy itself, some updated figures we're doing about half a billion in assets right now, about two billion in volume for a pretty small Milwaukee company of five people that are full time. In terms of kind of looking at the market, Will touched on a lot of the ICO stuff, I won't go too much into that since we are in that kind of area, we trade those assets and users can use [inaudible] trade those. It's a scary scary place to be since we're kind of on the portal side of it, seeing all of it come through. And to date as far as I know, more money has been raised in that model in ICO's and it's been raised in venture capital as a whole globally. Some more money has been given to these projects than from injuries and Horowitz and all the venture capital around the world. Which means they're not doing due diligence on these things, they don't have an MVP, they might take a white paper and like two guys in a garage. Which is the 1990's again. So I do think there are like the Amazon's and the Google's and the Facebook's that are in this space already and they're already here. But I don't know what those are, I don't think really anybody knows what those are. In terms of going from kind of a more philosophical point of view, looking at it from kind of a business model, traditionally either you raise equity or you raise debt in the market. If you can raise like a token that's used in your software it's an entirely new service and kind of product if you will. Within Coinigy we trade those assets and seeing the terms of like going from kind of your point of view, Dave's point of view and the valuation of these, you can't run a DCF model on one of these. You can't run like a bond payout model, you can't run the GDP of the country and find the currency of it, the value of the currency. In terms of like valuing bitcoin I have no idea how to do it and you could talk about the utility value in terms of it takes computing power and opportunity costs to value it. So what are the electricity cost is and the computing cost is, that's like your base utility value, it's like a book value, is the kind of work I like to use. And then there's like the ongoing utility of that so you can pay globally, what is that worth to you, to pay my, a friend in the Philippines that can't get a bank from Western Union or anything. And then there's the spectrum value which is probably why we're at 7 1/2 thousand dollars right now. And then like from a business operational model working in this space and actually a real company gets paid in the space, it's really really scary to manage risk and everything. And then on the risk side of things with the CME and CBOE of watching futures, hopefully we're going to be able to track that. They want to have it to mitigate risks, everybody know that derivative and options are actually now used to take on more risks. Interestingly enough if you really dig into the nitty gritty the CME futures are only daily settlements so you can't trade minute to minute. And then, I mean there's companies out have derivative spot options on this stuff. I don't know where that's really going to go, I mean the SEC has to come and hear more and actually get like relation the back end of everything. But like Will said, I mean there is a lot of frothiness in this. Where it's going to stop or where it's going to kind of downturn I have no idea and I don't anybody really knows. I don't think any of us is smart enough to know that. But it's an interesting space to be in.  Fascinating. So here we had four or six experts representing specific industries, insurance, accounting, banking and our crypto currency. I found this fascinating as well as the presentations this morning. Here's an opportunity now to open up the floor for questions. You're sitting here with six experts who are on a regular basis daily responsible for providing internal, as well as external consulting and advice for their clients and employers. So, please let's see if there's some questions from the floor right now. [ Inaudible Question ] So Girish would you sort of summarize the question.  Yep. So the question was, you know today we use IOT devices to gather data to monitor the supply chain and how do you think your IOT devices is kind of the question.  Okay.  Well blockchain will not solve that problem. So blockchain, well blockchain itself can be pretty secure. I don't think blockchain can solve the problem of security with IOT devices itself, that's the problem that IOT devices have to deal with. Well IOT you know opens up a whole new debate. And so let's not get in there, you know. So the data on blockchain is secure you know in my view so, but the IOT devices I don't know how to answer that specific question, that's an IOT question, that's not a blockchain question. [ Inaudible Question ] Well.  And again summarize the question so everyone can hear it.  Well the question is, you know there is a limitation of using blockchain to supply chain because you're just limited by the threat of somebody hacking into IOT devices that's coming in. I agree, but you know that is a gain in evolution in the, in the synergy of different technologies coming together. So you know that's, that kind of leads itself into the question of what does the limitations of using blockchain, you know are what comes in the way of adoption of blockchain? So what comes in the way of adoption blockchain? One is education, you know the mindset has to shift significantly. The second one is the building of scaling up of ecosystem such as IOT devices itself. Or inter operability with other systems, you know blockchain cannot you know just operate by itself in an island, it has to inter operate with multiple other systems, so one of them is IOT. So that's you know one of the challenges that which will help evolve eventually, you know for a full adoption of blockchain in the next three to five years or we don't know.  Again IOT internet of things, ICO initial coining offerings.  Right, right. So, but you know blockchain the way it is designed, kind of links itself to inter operability with other technologies, you know including AI or internet of things or any other technology you throw it out there because it's fundamentally an immutable ledger so. So everything has to be kind of synergetic with the ledger, which is you know keeper of the data, keeper of traceability, keeper of accountability and liability to monitor.  Okay next question sir.  So well it's interesting you mentioned AI that's what my question is so, you know I mean Bill mentioned the, sort of the intersection of AI and blockchain potentially in smart contracts as an example. So I'm just curious if you guys could talk about it some other, what are some other examples either you know in supply chain or another areas where you see that intersection occurring?  Anyone want to tackle that?  I guess.  Not my pay grade.  One area is definitely you know applicable to some of the solutions I think those working on with this firm and other law firms interested in space. There will be a need for, as these different decentralize applications become live and become used and start to address higher order problems, you know above just payments. There's going to be a need for oracles and you know secure identities and you know I think that reintroduces trust to the system so. I think there is always going to be some small amount of trust needed in some area of these systems. And especially as we reach the higher order problems and solve them so, I think one of the things that can keep that trust very low would be you know some machine learning, deep learning or AI system working with an oracle service to kind of automate some of those determinations that the oracles making. And then of course those, you know those determinations are going to be involved in some sort of transactional thing for whatever higher order decentralized app. You know solving various problems, so I'm thinking from a legal context it could be as simple as you know an oracle that tells the system when, you know when physically keys have been handed over for a home. Right? To, from a past tenant to a new tenant or past tenant to landlord to the new tenant. I could see you know in the document process, you know a smart contract being involved in that transaction and you know perhaps some level of AI working with the oracle service to make sure that the real world things that have happened, actually happened and then tell the, you know the digital world, the blockchain world, the you know VR and the AI world, what happened. What actually happened so it can also take place in that system so.  All right we'll go one more over here and then we'll switch back and forth. Next question please.  Oh all right. Hi I'm Joe Baker for Remedy Coin. And I guess Bob maybe this goes to you, I was hearing you talk about what, how this might affect insurance. And I've compared kind of the things that I've seen that inspired Remedy Coin, like you know damages to individuals with auditors maybe and or not, appraisers right in insurance claims. And I'm starting to see this morph into an idea of well we have a claim substantiated and tokenized and all this. What's to keep this from disrupting the insurance industry? You know people always looking for where they can put their value, maybe not to gain but just to hold value in a place where, in a concept of a future where there's a crash in the fiat system. You want your money in something that's substantiated. So do you think, do you think this sort of thing could, you know I don't want to say eliminate insurance but kind of cut in on their business where people are willing to actually fund someone who's documented damages so that they can hold piece of that damage?  Okay. So you mentioned claims specifically. That is an important aspect of our business, we want to make sure that we're there to fulfill the promises we've made to our policy owners. But I would say the nature of insurance is, at it's base level is trust. And so there's trust that you do have the financial wherewithal to back the promises you've made that you are known as a good actor. And so there's some aspects that could speak to that. But on the claims side specifically I think that's, you bring up an opportunity potentially to streamline a process to have a better experience. But I don't know if that would necessarily be disruptive in nature.  This is quick, is the claim that someone files against you or is it against the person that injured them?  Well we're on the, the life and disability long-term care side of thing, so that's more property and causality so I can't really speak to that.  Okay, thanks.  Okay. Over here now.  Hi I came a little late so this has already been answered excuse me. But so basically as bitcoin and the whole ecosystem scales, do you see proof of work becoming an issue and the transition to proof of stake becoming a necessity?  I have a quick thought on this, I think there's, I know there's a lot of concern about the amount of energy consumption going on for a proof of work system the size of bitcoin. I don't see that as wasteful at all, I can probably give a nice long argument about why but, I think the world will always have one, probably one, maybe more than one but probably at least one proof of work system similar to what we see with Nakamoto consensus on bitcoins blockchain. That will be kind of the, the reserve chain that all the other staking chains that maybe use other mechanisms for consensus, proof of stake, delegated proof of stake, whatever it may be. They sort of depend on, right? The one large proof of work blockchain, that's what I think. I, just a quick point on the energy consumption. I think in places where mining has, mining operations are very attractive, those miners are, they're not just doing like arbitrage on energy prices. They're actually storing otherwise unused energy in the bitcoin that they create with mining so, just think of bitcoin as a battery in this sense. Okay so in China there's ghost cities and ghost cities have miners near them because those power plants are pushing full capacity power out to empty cities. When that happens the grid can't use it. And so it's wasted otherwise. The miners aren't wasting it, they're getting it very very cheap for that reason and they're kind of storing it in the bitcoins that are created. And again to the valuation point, you can kind of see how, how sky's the limit you know. If you think down, the game theory of that so. I think there will be one proof of work system at least and we'll always have at least one.  All right thank you, go over here now.  Hello my name is Dan Schultz I'm with Wisconsin Badger Blockchain Group, head of use case analysis. I was wondering and maybe this isn't any of your field of expertise but if one of you could comment on the recent agreement to avoid the hard fork? And how that affects the nature of, just comment on the nature of the way these technologies fork in general maybe and how this might set a precedent for changes going forward, reaching consensus and specifically the bitcoin community?  I can take this I guess. So if you read the, I think I'm right you can correct me if I'm not, but I think if you read the original white paper he actually like predicts that this is all going to happen, like there's going to be disagreement in terms of the software and the code. And so he wants these forks to happen. And for people that don't understand like you have to have 51% for any code update to actually go to the market. And if that doesn't happen they can basically fork off their own asset and that's what these segue to all this forking stuff is about. In terms of like the longevity of that, I don't, I mean if there's a better idea eventually in the long-term, I think the logical minds will kind of come to it. It was interesting though with that fork it means, if you read the original, like the email that came out it was literally signed by six people. And so it's quite literally six people were going to control this fork out of the whatever millions of people that are in the entire ecosystem. So there was kind of like a collection of power right there which if anybody kind of gets to the beam, this is kind of anti like centralization. And so like if you [inaudible] like Jeff Garzik and all those guys, I mean those like six people that signed an email saying we're not going to do it anymore. So six people are going to control how currency that's used by tens of millions of people are, is coded in kind of the block size of it and everything it's kind of scary so.  If I could follow up just quickly on that.  Yeah please.  I think the idea of forks, especially whenever it comes to like the exploit or hack of the dowel last year, the riff from the headlines and who know what they'll do at with the most recent issues with the wallet reach. But I think that really speaks to blockchain is potentially good for use cases in which they're not error prone processes. You introduce error into it, whether it's an exploitative fashion or in a unintentional fashion and you have these issues in which you have to consider okay do we fork and kind of revert back to the prior agreed upon source of truth? So these are instances in which these decisions around forks have been brought up. But to deploy this in mass as the underlying fabric of a potential future global commerce platform. You're really putting a lot of onus onto then minimizing the error inherent inside of your processes.  And I tell you say if significant value is lost, people want blood right? They want to sue somebody. So who do you sue? Do you sue the blockchain? Do you sue you know, there's nobody to sue. So, it's an interesting factor.  If some of these topics are doing whoosh to you, they are to me too okay. I guess that's why we're here. Yes?  Hello. My name is William, my background is in cyber security, I've worked with Johnson Controls in the past couple of years. Fiat Motor Company, but I've recently transitioned into doing more of IT compliance. With that a lot of the work I've done contract based has been in the UK, France and Switzerland. And one of the big things that's coming out in Europe right now is the general data privacy regulation or the GDPR. So, I'm just curious in my work, I have to be sort of ahead of what's coming technology wise and how this is going to affect the companies and the GDPR. So I guess I'm just curious with all these new blockchain technologies coming out, I'm just really spent a lot of my day reading the white papers because I have to figure out how is this going to affect my clients in the future. GDPR is, it states that people have to know how you're collecting their data, where is it going and these sort of things. I'm looking at technologies now and I guess I just want to see what are you all interested in based, like technology wise, because I'm looking at these technologies and what they're bringing to the table so to speak and how they will affect data privacy. You have IBM and their HyperLedger which is now based or I believe they partnered with Stellar Lumens and their platform. And then you have Ripple who's partnered with the Gates Foundation. Waltonchain in Korea, NEO who is suppose to be like the e theorem of China, China shutdown their trading but thinking about spinning that back up. So I'm looking at all these various technologies and what they could promise or what they could bring to investments, cyber security, compliance and law. I guess I'm just curious as to what are you all interested in right now as far as emerging blockchains and potentially their concerns?  I'm going to try to invoke Lamont Black's lightning round idea. Anybody have quick answers to some of those yes?  Yeah I mean for me when you mentioned compliance in the banking industry, it's one of the most heavily regulated industries in the world so, at first when bank compliance, OCC, the FDIC started hearing about blockchain they immediately just thought bitcoin and they was like oh my god, what are we going to do with this. But the more they dig in to really understanding blockchain as a mechanism, they love it. Because if you're going to tell an auditing firm or the compliance firm or the OCC, somebody that needs to go through every single bank record, they salivate at the idea of blockchain. I mean to them it's, yes, thank god because we don't have to audit, we don't have to go in. So in my world that's what I'm very very interested in.  All right let's do quick lightning round questions back and forth. We've got about five minutes, so let's go here.  So not sure if this is touching on the same ground as the previous question about proof of work and energy but, I was reading something recently that said that currently credit card payment processing systems can handle like 10,000 times the volume of many of the leading crypto currency, [inaudible] processing platforms. So I'm just wondering as crypto currencies and bitcoin transactions continue to scale is there any concern from experts that this system is not setup to handle the volume of transactions that has likely to occur?  Absolutely. So you're spot on, the transactional throughput is a hindrance to current systems. But just in August one of the founders of the theorem, published the white paper with some others, introducing the idea of a platform called plasma. And it's designed conceivably to handle up to billions of transactions per second. So they're going from a reduced capability mode versus, say for instance like the Visa transaction that worked, to something that is potentially able to handle far more than the established networks out there from a transaction volume.  Okay very good, we'll go over here now.  I had a few basic questions, so you know we heard a lot about, you know disrupting the banking industry, disrupting you know supply chain, all that. What would you recommend a current student who's interested in this, what would you recommend that you redo? Because you know we can't all disrupt banks, we can't all logistics and all that?  Yeah you can.  Yes, that's right, yes you can.  So what's your interest?  Well primarily trading, trading like kind of you know banking and all that but, you know we can't all go into a bank and completely change it, you know it's an industry you can't completely change, I mean not everyone completely change every industry you know.  Well these industries are pretty broad by the nature, pick one problem and try to address that then.  Right.  That will scale up.  The truth is now you can hammer away in your dorm room or in your basement and in very much no time at all, like one to three years conservatively you can change your life and do what you want to do in life.  Yeah now the student and if you have everything, you know passion for entrepreneurship, people have always asked like how do I create a blockchain company. You don't create a blockchain company, you create a company that solves a lot of needs for a lot of people and then you apply that technology to it, to distribute it to as many people as you can.  There's a huge opportunity to do, do well by doing good too. So, people are focused on banking, insurance, those kinds of things. But I would encourage you to take a look at serving the underprivileged of the world as well. I think that there is a lot of opportunity to deliver services at local [inaudible]. [ Multiple Speakers ] Bitpesos the company you can look at too.  Say that again Derek.  Bitpesos that's a company in Kenya.  Yeah.  You just need a cell phone and you have a bank account.  Right, talk these folks afterwards, over here now.  Really good question, kind off of what he was saying, so for young people and for recent graduates these is really exciting technology and we've talked a little bit about valuation and a little bit about pricing and one thing that I'm curious is how you all might suggest we incorporate this, you know blockchain currencies into our personal investments as a way to grow wealth, be involved and then help disrupt these things on a larger scale.  Do you own a bitcoin today?  I do, not much yet.  None of us up here are registered investment advisers. [ Inaudible Comment ]  Allow me to be more clear I don't mean as like a direct like do this, do that, the other thing.  So I get about like probably 100 emails a day from our customers they're like what should I buy? I'm not a CF, a charter financial planner. For resources you can look at, a really really smart guy in space, his name is Chris Mershko [assumed spelling] I think, he worked for ARK Investments. He has like an entire deck on like how to value these things. He's a really really bright guy in space. I mean there's like mutual funds there, kind of launching for this kind of stuff as well. And then like quite literally go home, open up excel and like try to do like a little model on this in terms of like what are adoption rates looking like and it's like a pretty daunting task, it might take you a long time but like it's all about what your own theory and thesis is really.  Everybody out there who's interested in the question should just like figure out one thing you don't want in your life anymore, like maybe it's that extra cup of coffee each week or something like that. Take that money and buy bitcoin. And then after you've had that taste explore some other crypto assets, but if you don't want to remove any of our vices, just take five, ten, 15 bucks a week, 20 bucks a week, buy bitcoin, do it 52 times in a year and you'll be experienced then, probably quite happy.  I have a question for the panel, what's your predictions for the value of bitcoin in a year?  I'm not answering that. I'm not answering that.  Last question over here.  There's been a lot of discussion about the value and the speed of the transaction and the benefit to the miner. And the speed of the transaction of the mining itself is correlated with the speed of your processing power and the cost of your, of your electricity. Is there in any way any advantage to location of where the miner is?  Yeah.  If you could touch upon that please?  So I can add, so I think it's Genesis Mine that has their operation in Iceland because the power there is like you almost get, you both pay the power companies to use it because it's so cheap. Because the hydroponic power and then China, like they all set them next to a river. Like there's a really good article I can send you if you come up later.  Assuming that the cost of electricity is the same.  Yeah.  Is there any value to being someone that's mining let's say in the Midwest? Because there are a lot of transactions in the Midwest?  Oh no it's geographic diagnostic because you can transfer it anywhere.  Jurisdictionally there might be advantages.  From a law standpoint, tax.  All right everyone let's thank our panel. [ Applause ] Good job everybody. [ Applause ] 