 Thank you very much. As I said before we will hold questions to the panel. Now our next speaker will be Dr. Ahmed Busnaina who, for many years is a distinguished researcher, in micro and nano electronics and in the fabrication and development of devices in addition to being a distinguished chairperson in the Northeastern University, relevant to this workshop, he is also the Director of the NSF for High Rate Manufacturing. He will speak to us about manufacturing for sensors. Thank you. Thank you very much. There is here a pleasure to be here. My talk is a little different. I miss the memo there will be a lot of technical stuff in my talk. I will talk about a new technology for making sensors. I will try to explain the presentation and how we make the sensors. Then about some of the sensor prototypes that we have done. We talk about the difficulties, especially with two new things, you are making a new sensor you have two variables to juggle I am the Director of the NSF Nanoscale Science and Engineering Center for High Rate Nanomanufacturing. The center graduated in 2014. Which means you do not have any money. That is what graduating means. We are still working on sensors and manufacturing. I will explain that. I worked 24 years, 25 years in top-down nano fabrication, before I started in the center. One of the motivations we have, the high cost of fabrication. For example, the last two fabs being built, in something, building $14.5 billion. The latest one is being built in China by TSMC which is a Taiwanese company and that one is about 17 billion. We thought this was a lot of money. It is getting to the point where it is so expensive only for companies that can build these. The second motivation which is what the center is based on, everyone was excited about nano materials going back to the 90s. People are using nanoparticles long before that of horse. No one knew how to put this information together to use useful information. We had to come up with a way to take these materials and have something useful. We thought they can actually do something. But they could not accommodate all the materials. So we had to come up with the material that would let you print on any substrate. You can use a variety of technologies, and mostly these technologies are bottom-up not top-down this slide we just showed. Which is IOT, this will need millions of sensors. They can only be successful if you have low cost low power sensors. All kinds of them, not just wearables, Internet industrial so forth. These are the innovations we have, wearables are a big factor, you can see it is about $60, the protection goes through, three, 3 trillion -- This does not have a good track record in producing this impact. Basically you can see a lot of companies that are doing the wearables. Google is trying to do the work. We always thought there has to be an easier way to use these materials and use a very expensive inexpensive -- Materials and use a very inexpensive approach. What about the current printing industry. Why can't I just by this inkjet printer. There are prices all the way from tens of thousands to hundreds of thousands. There are some problems, they have limitations. For one, even the printed RFD -- RFID tags, only the antenna is printed. The second thing. The scale. The line with, the dimensions of the electronics that you can print using printers is limited to 20 µ. Some of you can go smaller but this is 20 µ and a higher. This is for a lot of applications. I just want to remind you this is 19 1975. This still has a big advantage. About 10 to 100 times less than a conventional product. They need to make multi layers in printing. The largest sensors today is basically those glucose strips you buy from CBS. -- CDS, Walgreens -- It is a strip. That is about it. When we started the center, 2004 focus for the four years, was actually to take the printing down. Using the assembly. We succeeded in doing, but this was not enough. We wanted to do two more things. We don't think this is possible if you just make being small, that is good, but it doesn't make for technology that could be used by others, or commercialized by others. Unless you do to other things. This has to be higher, 2 to 3 magnitudes, the cost has to be low. More than any silica and based electronics or sensors. I will talk about how we built the printers and so forth. How does it work works we make templates. Using silicon wafers. It would have whatever pattern you want. Then you put them in a solution, most of the solutions water, and you apply to bolts or 2 to 3 V, and assemble carbon nanotubes or whatever you are making. This takes three minutes, two or three-minute assembly, which is the inking of your printing template the concept is simple. You take it out, dry it, then you can do this several times for each layer. You have a specific template. Whatever number your circuit design requires. Basically this shows what it looks like. You have the template, the inking, and the transfer. Been you continue the cycle. You print the wall layer in one shot. You don't have a check going back and forth to print. You can print flexible hot -- Or hard substrates. We have used inorganic materials, and most of them you dissolve in a solvent, and you can still apply the same process. We tried conduct semi conducting materials. A very low investment. You can make the whole thing using one tool. This is what the templates look like, this is silicone we also make templates on polymers, so that you can use them for a roll to roll if you like. This shows PSL particles, and carbon nanotubes, when advantage is that it during the inking process, it gives you a nice line of channel of carbon nanotubes. Which is very useful if you’re doing sensors or electronics. We built the tool, we do not have a video here, but this is a cluster tool we built. This is the inking station; this is the registration unit. This is to align the different layers. This has a 2m resolution. We won a variety awards for this. The key thing for this is that It prints 1000 times faster, 1000 times smaller than an inkjet. There are a lot of videos on YouTube, if you go there is a video made by the museum of science, if you go from lab to fab on YouTube but be careful because it will come up and ask if you mean flab to fab. You do not want that. This was made by NSF. By one of my students. They show in the first two, a lot of interviews and discussion within the industry and government people. The last one we just show the sequence of one printing cycle. This is our news printer, it’s actually being printed right now we went away from the cluster tool We went to linear, now you can see we have six functionally functioning modules. This is being built right now. We use this technology to print meta materials, shielding, energy harvesting, flexible electronics, interconnects, NEMS a lot of sensor work, and Printing drugs. Taking insoluble drugs and make them soluble as well, most of these are printing less than 100 nm. It turns out if you print a drug particle in an odd shape, it will have 10 times more effective in penetrating sales, then a particle. Quickly through these examples of the sensors, I will have a couple of slides on chemical sensor, and for detecting on sensors. For glucose, using sweat. This is a carbon nanotube on a chip this is for alcohol detection and cancer detection, using nanoparticles, these are electronics that we make. I will show three examples. One slide on electronics first. We did print using 2-D material, using electronics using carbon nanotubes to make inverters. But remember you do not have to use that, you can use silicon, you can use the zinc selenide, they work actually, we printed and they work fine. Sensors I just want to go through some of the issues that we deal with. We are the manufacturing. We use them as sensor as a platform to verify what we do. The first thing. In making the sensors, the same thing if you make electronics, scalability, how big you can handle. Most students working in the lab with a chip and self-worth, how do you ensure high-yield works this was mentioned. This is a huge issue to be dealt with. What is the lifecycle of your product, how does it compare to others. This is a big deal. If you have sweat, or the package is supposed to take it to the sensor, and we get out. There is a different project altogether. What is supporting electronics. They have to go to digital. Then they will have to communicate it. They will have to be specific. It has to be feasible in stable from batch to batch in different environments. Especially if it is a biosensor, how many times can you use it collects how long, what is the shelf life? Does it take a few minutes to give you a signal? If your signal is 10 nanoamps, forget it will not work. It would be down by the noises that are down by the other electronics. How do you test it? Especially if you don't have any particles for testing. What are the particles? There are not any yet. You have to make your own -- Look at people who are doing the same thing, and if you have to commercialize this. Whoever is your customer will have to say I have to have sensors. They have to have these protocols developed. When you have these customers you will have to do that. These are the first two speakers talked about, how do you have a technology and you try to push it on different people. So basically when you have this technology, it is like push and pull you can go to customers, and ask what is their pain. When companies come to us, they are moving in the different direction, because they want something that they cannot get. It is actually helpful, and if you have a start up, and you have university working in the field, they tell you what sensors you need, and what the specs are, all you have to do is make it. I will give you three examples of sensors. Three of these are carbon nanotube based sensors other one are nano particle, Halliburton, There is a sensor that is supposed to work in a harsh environment, this is not easy I will tell you why, if you have electronics, they will not work in this harsh environment, the transitions will not be stable. High-pressure, 2500 psi, they will have  to work in this environment, in nitrogen, it has to work in air, in water vapor, underwater, with the other carbons and so for the. It is a chemical resistant based operation. We chose the two terminal device channels, instead of a three terminal device why, -- They wanted to be extremely cheap if they lose it it's okay. This is what it looks like for example. The sensor is functionalized, you can use a TEMPO molecule, the sensor has a nice thing, it recovers, and the current goes down. They recover and the baseline is always the same. This is what it looks like the channel that detects the hydrogen sulfide you can test this by what you can buy now. The wheel industry. The sensor is about 5 pounds, $400. It is like It is like $.50 or less. The other sensor, us a cancer sensor, this is the nano particle-based, we assembled them and we can put four different biomarkers here. This was published and funded by the Keck foundation. You can see that it can detect cancer in a mouse after three days whereas typical technology will not detect the cancer until it is very visible in the mouse. Detection limit is 15 Pg/ml and the hospital detection is 3000 pg/ml so it tells you that you can detect cancer much earlier. This is the sweat based sensor -- There are 100 sensors here, in this small area. These when we first did these sensors, they looked okay the Air Force spec was 3 to 4 days working continuously we did in 14 days. It looks okay. Except If you look at the Y axis, and its nanoamps. -- We designed the sensor, that will not work, now we designed the sensor, the signal is instant. It is a very strong signal. This is in comparison with the research, there is no commercial products here. All of these sensors basically have two features here. For example. It does not see the other sensors is all. All of the sensors require adding a chemical, we don't. It is a very unique feature. Also we follow the batches with the sensor and what it looks like, longer yields, we ship to companies, they are required to yield to be far away so that when the bond them they don't damage the sensor. This is basically when you do small batch, you will always have that because the condition changes from day to day. This is something by automation, the new tool I showed, is fully automated. The next ones stored there, would be less in the sensitivity of the sensor from batch to batch. The same sensor we use in water to detect bacteria. Of viruses, and also Pharma products in the water. There is a lot of Pharma products in the drinking water that isn’t taken out. This is not taken out by the water treatment plants so we developed threshold sensors to tell you if you have a high concentration. These are not taken out by the water treatment plants. This technology I want to summarize has been developed and by the National Science Foundation, and it lowers the cost, thousand times faster than inkjet printing, 1000 times smaller. This makes printing sensors and electronics inexpensive. The printer we have is MRL7. The printed sensor not the electronics, is TRL6, we have the sensor -- 35 patents that are specific to what I talked about, 20 have been awarded, and we just started a company to make these printers available to everyone and at the same time we are printing wireless sensors prototypes for small medium large companies for testing. I’ll stop here. [Applause] 