BusinessOverviewBroadridge Financial Solutions, Inc. (“Broadridge” or the “Company”), a Delaware corporation and a part of the S&P 500® Index (“S&P”), is a global financial technology leader providing investor communications and technology-driven solutions to banks, broker-dealers, asset and wealth managers and corporate issuers. With over 50 years of experience, including over 10 years as an independent public company, we provide financial services firms with advanced, dependable, scalable and cost-effective integrated solutions and an important infrastructure that powers the financial services industry. Our solutions enable better financial lives by powering investing, governance and communications and help reduce the need for our clients to make significant capital investments in operations infrastructure, thereby allowing them to increase their focus on core business activities. Our services include investor communications, securities processing, data and analytics, and customer communications solutions. We serve a large and diverse client base across four client groups: banks/broker-dealers, asset management firms/mutual funds, corporate issuers, and wealth management firms. For capital markets firms, we help our clients lower costs and improve the effectiveness of their trade and account processing operations with support for their front-, middle- and back-office operations, and their administration, finance, risk and compliance requirements. We serve asset management firms by meeting their critical needs for shareholder communications and by providing investment operations technology to support their investment decisions. For wealth management clients, we provide an integrated platform with tools that create a better investor experience, while also delivering a more streamlined, efficient, and effective advisory servicing process. For our corporate issuer clients, we help manage every aspect of their shareholder communications, including registered and beneficial proxy processing, annual meeting support, transfer agency services and financial disclosure document creation, management and SEC filing services.We operate our business in two reportable segments: Investor Communication Solutions and Global Technology and Operations. Investor Communication SolutionsWe provide the governance and communications solutions through our Investor Communication Solutions business segment to the following financial services clients: banks/broker-dealers, asset management firms/mutual funds, corporate issuers and wealth management firms. In addition to financial services firms, our Customer Communications business also serves companies in the healthcare, insurance, consumer finance, telecommunications, utilities and other service industries. A large portion of our Investor Communication Solutions business involves the processing and distribution of proxy materials to investors in equity securities and mutual funds, as well as the facilitation of related vote processing. ProxyEdge® (“ProxyEdge”) is our innovative electronic proxy delivery and voting solution for institutional investors and financial advisors that helps ensure the voting participation of the largest stockholders of many companies. We also provide the distribution of regulatory reports and corporate action/reorganization event information, as well as tax reporting solutions that help our clients meet their regulatory compliance needs.We also provide asset managers and retirement service providers with data-driven solutions that help our clients grow revenue, operate efficiently, and maintain compliance. We offer an end-to-end platform for content management, composition, and multi-channel distribution of regulatory, marketing, and transactional information. Our data and analytics solutions provide investment product distribution data, analytical tools, insights, and research to enable asset managers to optimize product distribution across retail and institutional channels globally. We also provide mutual fund trade processing services for retirement providers, third-party administrators, financial advisors, banks and wealth management professionals through Matrix Financial Solutions, Inc. (“Matrix”).In addition, we provide public corporations with a full suite of solutions to help manage their annual meeting process, including registered proxy distribution and processing services, proxy and annual report document management solutions, and solutions to gain insight into their shareholder base through our shareholder data services. We also provide financial reporting document composition and management, SEC disclosure and filing services, and registrar, stock transfer and record-keeping services through Broadridge Corporate Issuer Solutions. 4Our wealth management solutions enable firms, financial advisors, wealth managers, and insurance agents to better engage with customers through digital marketing and customer communications tools. We integrate data, content and technology to drive new customer acquisition and cross-sell opportunities through the creation of sales and educational content, including seminars as well as customizable advisor websites, search engine marketing and electronic and print newsletters. Our advisor solutions also help advisors optimize their practice management through customer and account data aggregation and reporting. We currently support over 200,000 professionals at more than 300 financial firms with our advisor solutions.We also provide customer communications solutions which include print and digital solutions, content management, postal optimization, and fulfillment services. The Broadridge Communications CloudSM (the “Communications Cloud”) provides multi-channel communications delivery, communications management, information management and control and administration capabilities that enable and enhance our clients’ communications with their customers. In addition, we provide our clients with capabilities to enhance the consumer experience associated with essential communications such as consumer statements, bills and regulatory communications. Global Technology and OperationsWe are a leading global provider of securities processing solutions for capital markets, wealth management, and asset management firms. We offer advanced solutions that automate the securities transaction lifecycle, from desktop productivity tools, data aggregation, performance reporting, and portfolio management to order capture and execution, trade confirmation, margin, cash management, clearance and settlement, asset servicing, reference data management, reconciliations, securities financing and collateral optimization, compliance and regulatory reporting, and accounting.Our services help financial institutions efficiently and cost-effectively consolidate their books and records, gather and service assets under management and manage risk, thereby enabling them to focus on their core business activities. Provided on a software as a service (“SaaS”) basis within large user communities, our technology is a global solution, processing clearance and settlement in over 90 countries. Our multi-asset, multi-market, multi-entity and multi-currency solutions support real-time global trade processing of equity, fixed income, mutual fund, foreign exchange, and exchange traded derivatives. We process on average over $7 trillion in equity and fixed income trades per day of U.S. and Canadian securities.In addition, we provide a comprehensive wealth management platform that offers capabilities across the entire wealth management lifecycle and streamlines all aspects of wealth management services, including account management, fee management and client on-boarding. Through our Managed Services, we provide business process outsourcing services that support the operations of our buy- and sell-side clients’ businesses and combine our technology with our operations expertise to support the entire trade lifecycle and provide front-, middle- and back-office solutions. We also provide buy-side technology solutions for the global investment management industry through our asset management solutions, including front-, middle- and back-office solutions for hedge funds, family offices, investment managers and the providers that service this space. Our Strategy We earn our clients’ confidence every day by delivering real business value through leading technology-driven solutions that help our clients get ahead of today’s challenges and capitalize on future growth opportunities. Our solutions harness people, technology and insights to help transform our clients’ businesses by enriching customer engagement, navigating risk, optimizing efficiency and growing revenue.As financial institutions look to transform and mutualize their mission-critical but non-differentiating back-office functions, we have the proven technology, scale, innovation, experience and, most importantly, the clients to achieve this goal and meet their needs. We define our market opportunity in our strong and growing global businesses in both governance and communications and capital markets, with an additional growth platform in wealth and investment management. Our growth strategy is based on the following key components.Our business model.We deliver multi-client technology and managed services primarily through common SaaS-based operations platforms. We increasingly create layers of value by driving network benefits to our clients, providing deep data and analytics solutions, and offering a suite of digital capabilities on a single platform. All of this translates into our core value proposition to be a trusted provider of technology and managed services across a range of analytical, operational and reporting functions.  Our SaaS offerings allow our clients to mutualize development expenses and our solutions integrate global data services to provide globally-consistent insight to functions and requirements within the financial services industry.5Strong positions in a large and growing financial services market.Our deep industry knowledge enables our clients to successfully solve complex technological challenges, and inspires trust among and brings novel perspectives to our clients. While financial services firms have historically kept much of their technology infrastructure work in-house, there are two significant trends working in favor of Broadridge. In aggregate, financial service firms globally are spending more on technology, and the respective budgets allocated are consistently growing year-over-year. Moreover, these firms are devoting a growing percentage of this spend to third-party technology, operations, and services. Broadridge, as a trusted outside partner, can undertake streamlining and better integrate this infrastructure and processes. We expect the efficiencies that result from such undertaking by Broadridge will lead to growth in the market for our solutions.Three attractive growth platforms.Our growth platforms address important and significant client needs as described below. Through our integrated solutions and services and our scalable infrastructure, we believe we are best positioned to meet them.•Governance. We provide a strong network through our governance platform that links broker-dealers, public companies, mutual funds, shareholders, and regulators. We continue to grow our governance solutions by continuing to transform content and delivery and improve product capabilities to drive higher investor engagement. We aim to be an integral partner to asset managers and retirement service providers by offering data-driven solutions that help them grow revenue, reduce costs and maintain compliance. We are also expanding our capabilities to better serve the needs of issuers and we are driving the next generation of digital communications while optimizing print and mail services through advanced technology. •Capital Markets. Global institutions have a strong need to simplify their complex technology environment, and our SaaS-based global, multi-asset class technology platform addresses this need. We are driving global post-trade management to create transformation opportunities to simplify our clients’ operations, improve performance, evolve to global operating models, adopt new technologies, and enable our clients to better manage their data. •Wealth Management. Wealth management clients which include capital markets and financial services firms, financial advisors, wealth managers and insurance agents are undergoing unprecedented change and need partners to help them navigate the new technologies that are essential to their business. Market dynamics are driving the need for integrated, data-centric digital wealth solutions and we see the need of investment managers to modernize their technology infrastructure. To address this need, we are integrating a “One Wealth” platform that optimizes advisor productivity, client experience and enterprise operations.On-ramp for next-generation technologies.Our clients understand that next-generation technology is a key driving force for change and efficiency and there is a need among our client base to leverage this technology to address their critical business challenges. However, they face obstacles in creating the right investment and, more importantly, in applying the right talent and intellectual capital, which may be focused on their most differentiating functions. This continues to create opportunities for Broadridge to assist in the areas where we have scale and domain expertise, which includes digital, cloud, blockchain, and artificial intelligence technologies. High engagement and client-centric culture.Broadridge is client-centric and has created and grown multi-entity infrastructures across a variety of functions with high client satisfaction. Broadridge conducts a client satisfaction survey for each of its major business units annually, the results of which are a component of all Broadridge associates’ compensation because of the importance of client retention to the achievement of Broadridge’s revenue goals.We have also built a culture where we focus on having engaged and knowledgeable associates to serve clients well, which in turn creates a real and sustainable advantage. Supporting this excellent client delivery takes engaged associates, and we are passionate about creating an environment in which every associate can thrive and build their knowledge and skills. All of this creates a culture that benefits our associates, our clients, and our stockholders.6History and Development of Our CompanyBroadridge has over 50 years of history in providing innovative solutions to financial services firms and publicly-held companies. We are the former Brokerage Services division of Automatic Data Processing, Inc. (“ADP”), which opened for business in 1962 with one client, processing an average of 300 trades per night. In 1979, ADP expanded its U.S.-based securities processing solutions to process Canadian securities. Broadridge was incorporated in Delaware as a wholly-owned subsidiary of ADP on March 29, 2007 in anticipation of our spin-off from ADP. We spun off from ADP and began operating as an independent public company on March 30, 2007. Investor Communication Solutions We began offering our proxy services in 1989. The proxy services business, which has become our Investor Communication Solutions business, leveraged the information processing systems and infrastructure of our Global Technology and Operations business. Our proxy services offering attracted 31 major clients in its first year of operations. In 1992, we acquired The Independent Election Corporation of America which further increased our proxy services capabilities. By 1999, we were handling over 90% of the investor communication distributions for securities held of record by banks and broker-dealers in the U.S. from proxy statements to annual reports. During the 1990s, we expanded our proxy services business to serve security owners of Canadian and United Kingdom issuers and we began offering a complete outsourced solution for international proxies.In 1994, we began offering ProxyEdge, our innovative electronic proxy delivery and voting solution for institutional investors that helps ensure the participation of the largest stockholders of many companies. In 1998, having previously provided print and distribution services as an accommodation to our securities processing and proxy clients, we decided to focus on account statement and reporting services. In 2001, we developed and released an electronic document distribution and archiving solution of all investor communications. In 2010, we entered the transfer agency business through an acquisition of a provider of registrar, stock transfer and record-keeping services.Since 2011, we have made several acquisitions to improve and expand the solutions offered through our Investor Communication Solutions segment to our clients. In June 2019, we acquired the retirement plan custody and trust assets from TD Ameritrade Trust Company (“TD Ameritrade”), a subsidiary of TD Ameritrade Holding Company. The acquisition expands our suite of solutions for the growing qualified and non-qualified retirement plan services market and the support provided for third-party administrators, financial advisors, record-keepers, banks, and brokers.Global Technology and Operations Our securities processing business has grown over the past 50 years from a processer of U.S. and Canadian securities to a global provider of multi-market, multi-asset class, multi-entity and multi-currency processing capabilities. We made significant additions to our Global Technology and Operations business through two key acquisitions in the mid-1990s. In 1995, we acquired a London-based provider of multi-currency clearance and settlement services, to become a global supplier of transaction processing services. In 1996, we acquired a provider of institutional fixed income transaction processing systems. Since 2011, we have made several acquisitions to expand the asset classes we process and the markets we serve. In fiscal year 2019, we made the following acquisitions: •In May 2019, we acquired Rockall Technologies Limited (“Rockall”), a leading provider of securities-based lending (“SBL”) and collateral management solutions for wealth management firms and commercial banks. The acquisition expands our core front- to back-office wealth capabilities, providing innovative SBL and collateral management technology solutions to help firms manage risk and optimize clients’ securities lending and financing needs; and•In June 2019, we acquired RPM Technologies (“RPM”), a leading Canadian provider of enterprise wealth management software solutions and services. The acquisition brings important new capabilities and next-generation technology to our clients. RPM's state-of-the-art technology platforms build on our strong Canadian wealth management business, providing a solution set for the retail banking sector with enhanced mutual fund and deposit manufacturing capabilities.7The Broadridge BusinessInvestor Communication SolutionsThe Investor Communication Solutions segment’s revenues represented approximately 80% and 81% of our total Revenues in fiscal years 2019 and 2018, respectively, which gives effect to the foreign exchange impact from revenues generated in currencies other than the United States of America (“U.S.”) dollar. See “Analysis of Reportable Segments—Revenues” under “Item 701. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” The services and solutions provided through our Investor Communication Solutions segment serve the following client groups:Banks/Broker-DealersWe handle the entire proxy materials distribution and voting process for our bank and broker-dealer clients. We offer traditional hard copy and electronic services for the delivery of proxy materials to investors and collection of consents; maintenance of a database that contains the delivery method preferences of our clients’ customers; posting of documents on the Internet; e-mail notification to investors notifying them that proxy materials are available; and proxy voting over the Internet, mobile devices and tablets. We also have the ability to combine stockholder communications for multiple stockholders residing at the same address which we accomplish by having ascertained the delivery preferences of investors. In addition, we provide a complete outsourced solution for the processing of international proxies with the ability to process proxy voting in over 120 international markets.A majority of publicly-traded shares are not registered in companies’ records in the names of their ultimate beneficial owners. Instead, a substantial majority of all public companies’ shares are held in “street name,” meaning that they are held of record by broker-dealers or banks through their depositories. Most street name shares are registered in the name “Cede & Co.,” the name used by The Depository Trust and Clearing Corporation (“DTCC”), which holds shares on behalf of its participant broker-dealers and banks. These participant broker-dealers and banks (which are known as “Nominees” because they hold securities in name only) in turn hold the shares on behalf of their clients, the individual beneficial owners. Nominees, upon request, are required to provide companies with lists of beneficial owners who do not object to having their names, addresses, and shareholdings supplied to companies, so called “non-objecting beneficial owners” (or “NOBOs”). Objecting beneficial owners (or “OBOs”) may be contacted directly only by the broker-dealer or bank. As DTCC’s role is only as the custodian, a number of mechanisms have been developed in order to pass the legal rights it holds as the record owner (such as the right to vote) to the beneficial owners. The first step in passing voting rights down the chain is the “omnibus proxy,” which DTCC executes to transfer its voting rights to its participant Nominees. Under applicable rules, Nominees must deliver proxy materials to beneficial owners and request voting instructions.Given the large number of Nominees involved in the beneficial proxy process resulting from the large number of beneficial shareholders, we play a unique, central and integral role in ensuring that the beneficial proxy process occurs without issue for both Nominees and companies. A large number of Nominees have contracted out the processes of distributing proxy materials and tabulating voting instructions to us. Nominees accomplish this by entering into agreements with Broadridge and transferring to us via powers of attorney the authority to execute a proxy, which authority the Nominee receives from the DTCC via an omnibus proxy. Through our agreements with Nominees for the provision of beneficial proxy services, we take on the responsibility of ensuring that the account holders of Nominees receive proxy materials, that their voting instructions are conveyed to the companies conducting solicitations and that these services are fulfilled in accordance with each company’s requirements with respect to its particular solicitation. In order for us to provide the beneficial proxy services effectively, we interface and coordinate directly with each company to ensure that the services are performed in an accurate and acceptable manner. With respect to companies, as it would be impracticable and would also increase the costs for companies to work with all of the Nominees through which their shares are held beneficially, companies work with us for the performance of all the tasks and processes necessary to ensure that proxy materials are distributed to all beneficial owners and that their votes are accurately reported. 8The Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) rules require public companies to reimburse Nominees for the expense of distributing stockholder communications to beneficial owners of securities held in street name. The reimbursement rates are set forth in the rules of self-regulatory organizations (“SROs”), including the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”). We bill public companies for the proxy services performed, collect the fees and remit to the Nominee its portion of the fees. In addition, the NYSE rules establish fees specifically for the services provided by intermediaries in the proxy process, such as Broadridge. We also compile NOBO lists on behalf of Nominees in response to requests from corporate issuers. The preparation of NOBO lists is subject to reimbursement by the securities issuers requesting such lists to the broker-dealers. The reimbursement rates are based on the number of NOBOs on the list produced pursuant to NYSE or other SRO rules. The rules also provide for certain fees to be paid to third-party intermediaries who compile NOBO lists. We function as an intermediary in the NOBO process.We provide institutional investors with a suite of services to manage the entire proxy voting process, including fulfilling their fiduciary obligations and meeting their reporting needs. ProxyEdge is our innovative electronic proxy delivery and voting solution for institutional investors and financial advisors that integrates ballots for positions held across multiple custodians and presents them under a single proxy. Voting can be instructed for the entire position, by account vote group or on an individual account basis either manually or automatically based on the recommendations of participating governance research providers. ProxyEdge also provides for client reporting and regulatory reporting. ProxyEdge can be utilized for meetings of U.S. and Canadian companies and for meetings in many non-North American countries based on the holdings of our global custodian clients. ProxyEdge is offered in several languages and there are currently over 5,600 ProxyEdge users worldwide.In addition to our proxy services, we provide our bank and broker-dealer clients with regulatory communications services including prospectus delivery services. Our proprietary extraction, normalization and presentment capabilities from the SEC’s EDGAR database have enabled us to provide our bank and broker-dealer and asset management clients with an on-demand solution for prospectus post-sale fulfillment. This process provides efficiency for our clients as it reduces their reliance on offset print and fund delivered inventory. We provide portfolio-specific solutions for the retirement and annuity markets. We have integrated this functionality into additional capabilities to offer an efficient fulfillment model for regulatory and compliance distributions. We also offer a complete reorganization communications solution to notify investors of reorganizations or corporate action events such as tender offers, mergers and acquisitions, bankruptcies, and class action lawsuits. We also offer our Mailbox products - Advisor Mailbox™ and Investor Mailbox® - which support and complement any investor communication strategy. Our Investor Mailbox solution provides the electronic delivery of investor communications to our clients’ websites, enabling investor access to regulatory delivery notices, day-to-day account and investment information and convenient response tools. Our Advisor Mailbox is an electronic communications platform for financial advisors that delivers immediate electronic access to the communications and documents sent to such advisors’ customers. Advisor Mailbox streamlines multiple communication paths for all investor-related documents into a single-visit portal that is integrated onto an advisor’s platform.We also provide tax services to financial services firms that support their various daily workflows, supervisory control and client reporting requirements for information reporting (e.g., Forms 1099 and 1042-S), with a focus on securities and fund processing and clearance operations. Our tax data services provide tax content and data management, including securities tax classifications and reclassifications, calculations of original issue discount and other accrual and cost basis adjusting events. Our tax services provide technology and client reporting, including print and electronic distribution and archival.Asset Management Firms/Mutual FundsWe provide a full range of data-driven solutions that help our asset management and retirement services clients grow revenue, operate efficiently, and maintain compliance. Our regulatory communications solutions enable global asset managers to communicate with large audiences of investors efficiently, reliably, and often with cost savings, by centralizing all investor communications through one resource. We provide composition, printing, filing, and distribution services for regulatory reports, prospectuses and proxy materials, as well as proxy solicitation services. We manage the entire communications process with both registered and beneficial stockholders. Our marketing and transactional communications solutions provide a content management and multi-channel distribution platform for marketing and sales communications for asset managers and retirement service providers. In addition, our data and analytics solutions provide investment product distribution data, analytical tools, and insights and research to enable asset managers to optimize product distribution across retail and institutional channels globally.9We also provide mutual fund processing services for third-party administrators, financial advisors, banks and wealth management professionals through Matrix. Matrix’s back-office, trust, custody, trading and mutual fund and ETF settlement services are integrated into our product suite thereby strengthening Broadridge’s role as a provider of data processing and distribution channel solutions to the mutual fund industry.Corporate IssuersWe are the largest processor and provider of investor communication solutions to public companies through the performance of beneficial proxy services. Our corporate issuer solutions include a full suite of annual meeting solutions which includes the following:•ShareLink® - complete project management for the entire annual meeting process including distribution of proxy materials and vote processing.•Virtual Shareholder Meeting™ - electronic annual meetings on the Internet, either on a stand-alone basis, or in conjunction with physical annual meetings including shareholder validation and voting services.•Proxy Materials Document Composition and Management - proxy and annual report design and digitization, SEC filing, printing and web hosting services.•Shareholder Data Services - integrate (1) an analytics engine for obtaining a comprehensive view of a company’s full shareholder base, including both registered and beneficial shareholders; (2) custom targeted communications for reaching discrete shareholder segments based on specific criteria; and (3) response reporting for evaluating results of targeted reminder mailings to shareholders. Companies can monitor progress of their proxy voting and capture valuable aggregated voting behavior data as a basis for on-going investor communications initiatives. •Enhanced Packaging of annual meeting materials - our Enhanced Packaging service offers windowed envelope options enabling issuers to engage their shareholders before they even open the envelope through call-to-action messaging, product highlights or simply showcasing the annual report; thereby improving proxy voting participation as well as increasing brand loyalty.To supplement our proxy services and annual meeting solutions, we offer corporate issuers a single source solution that spans the entire corporate disclosure and shareholder communications lifecycle. We provide registrar, stock transfer and record-keeping services. Our transfer agency business addresses the needs public companies have for more efficient and reliable stockholder record maintenance and communication services. In addition, we provide corporate actions services including acting as the exchange agent, paying agent, or tender agent in support of acquisitions, initial public offerings and other significant corporate transactions.Our solutions for public companies include transactional and compliance reporting services to public companies, including document composition, SEC filing services for capital markets transactions such as initial public offerings, spin-offs, acquisitions, and debt and equity securities offerings, and year-round SEC disclosure services such as document composition and SEC filing software and services for SEC reports, proxy statements, annual reports 