BusinessWe are a leading supplier of cloud networking solutions that use software innovations to address the needs of large-scale Internet companies, cloud service providers and next-generation data centers for enterprise support. Our cloud networking solutions consist of our Extensible Operating System, or EOS, a set of network applications and our Ethernet switching and routing platforms. Our cloud networking solutions deliver industry-leading performance, scalability, availability, programmability, automation and visibility. At the core of our cloud networking platform is EOS, which was purpose-built to be fully programmable and highly modular. The programmability of EOS has allowed us to create a set of software applications that address the requirements of cloud networking, including workflow automation, network visibility and analytics, and has also allowed us to rapidly integrate with a wide range of third-party applications for virtualization, management, automation, orchestration and network services.  Since we began shipping our products, we have grown rapidly, and, according to Crehan Research, we have achieved the second largest market share in data center 10/25/40/50/100 Gigabit Ethernet switch ports, excluding blade switching, sold in 2016.EOS supports leading cloud and virtualization solutions, including VMware NSX, Microsoft System Center, OpenStack and other cloud management frameworks. We have worked with industry leaders to define new open protocols for the virtualized data center. We co-authored the VXLAN protocol specification with VMware and were the first to demonstrate VXLAN integration and have now expanded VXLAN routing and integration. We use standard Linux as our underlying operating system, providing customers with access to all Linux operating system facilities. This allows customers to extend our EOS software with off-the-shelf Linux applications and a growing number of open source management tools.EOS has a highly modular architecture, which allows us to prevent network outages in deployments of our cloud networking solutions. This architecture also allows us to rapidly develop new features and protocols without compromising the quality of the existing code base. Because all of our platform products are powered by the same binary image of EOS, we are able to deliver these new innovations to our entire installed base with minimal disruption.EOS+, a software platform for network programmability and automation, provides an advanced level of programmability, allowing customers to take advantage of pre-built and custom EOS applications as well as integration with a wide range of technology partner solutions.In 2015, we introduced CloudVision, a network-wide approach for workload orchestration and workflow automation delivering a turnkey solution for cloud networking.  We believe CloudVision’s abstraction of the physical network to this broader, network-wide perspective allows for a more efficient approach for several operational use-cases related to automation, visibility, management, security and 3rd party controller integration.We sell our products through both our direct sales force and our channel partners. Since shipping our first products in 2008, our cumulative end-customer base has grown rapidly. Between December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2016, our cumulative end-customer base grew from approximately 1,100 to over 4,200. Our end customers span a range of industries and include large Internet companies, service providers, financial services organizations, government agencies, media and entertainment companies and others. Our customers include six of the largest cloud services providers based on annual revenue.5Table of ContentsWe have experienced rapid revenue growth over the last several years, increasing our revenue at a compound annual growth rate of 51.9% from $139.8 million in 2011 to $1.1 billion in 2016. For 2014, 2015, and 2016 our revenue was $584.1 million, $837.6 million and $1.1 billion, respectively, with our 2016 revenue growing 34.8% when compared to 2015. Our net income has grown from $34.0 million in 2011 to $86.9 million, $121.1 million and $184.2 million in 2014, 2015, and 2016, respectively. Industry BackgroundCloud computing is fundamentally changing the way IT infrastructure is built and how applications are delivered. In cloud computing, applications are distributed across thousands of servers. These servers are connected with high-speed network switches that, together, form a pool of resources that allows applications to be rapidly deployed and cost-effectively updated. Cloud computing enables ubiquitous and on-demand network access to these applications from Internet-connected devices including personal computers, tablets and smartphones.Nearly all consumer applications today are delivered as cloud services. Enterprise applications are rapidly moving to the cloud as well, since cloud services are easier and more cost effective to deploy, scale and operate than traditional applications. Internet leaders like Amazon, eBay, Facebook, Google, Microsoft and Yahoo! pioneered the development of large-scale cloud data centers in order to meet the growing demands of their users, including business customers. Enterprises and service providers around the world are adopting cloud computing technologies in order to achieve similar performance improvements and cost reductions.The aggregate network bandwidth in the cloud can be orders of magnitude higher than typical legacy data center networks. Therefore, the networks in such cloud environments must be architected and built in a new way. We refer to these next-generation data center networks as cloud networks. Cloud networks must deliver high capacity, high availability and predictable performance and must be programmable to allow integration with third-party applications for network, management, automation, orchestration and network services.Limitations of Traditional Data Center NetworksIn our view, cloud networks and legacy networks are fundamentally different. In a traditional data center, specific applications are installed on a small number of servers, and most network traffic is server-to-client, or “north-south” traffic, which results in perhaps a few terabits/second of aggregate network bandwidth. In the cloud, most network traffic is server-to-server, or “east-west” traffic. The aggregate network bandwidth in the cloud can exceed 1 petabit/second, orders of magnitude higher than that of typical legacy data center networks.The much larger scale of cloud networks requires much higher network availability since network outages in the cloud are very expensive in terms of customer impact. Traditional network switches have evolved, and the features and capabilities of their operating system have expanded over many years without addressing the structural deficiencies of their underlying software architectures, making it difficult to achieve high network switch reliability.Some networking vendors have built products that use proprietary protocols to address the scaling needs of next-generation data centers. However, proprietary protocols are generally not acceptable to Internet companies or cloud service providers because they create vendor lock-in.Legacy networks are not programmable and, as a result, are extremely difficult to integrate with third-party applications for network management, automation, orchestration and network services. This lack of integration forces customers to continue to rely on time consuming, error-prone manual processes that may be cost-prohibitive.Requirements for Cloud NetworkingCloud networks differ in many aspects from legacy networks, including capacity, performance, scale, availability, programmability, automation, visibility, security and cost performance. The requirements for cloud networking include the following:•Capacity, Performance and Scalability. Cloud networks must have sufficient capacity to interconnect large numbers of servers, up to hundreds of thousands, with predictable network bandwidth.•High Availability. Cloud networks must overcome hardware and software failures for customers in order to avoid network outages that can result in lost revenue, dissatisfied customers and increased operational cost.•Open and Programmable. Cloud networks must be based on open protocols and be programmable to enable integration with leading network applications and management and data analysis tools.•Workflow Automation. Cloud networks must offer automated provisioning and configuration to enable fast service delivery and to minimize operational costs, avoiding time-consuming and error-prone manual processes for configuring, provisioning, monitoring and managing the network.•Network Visibility. Cloud networks must provide IT administrators with real-time in-depth visibility of network status to proactively monitor, detect and notify when issues arise.•Security. Cloud networks require dynamic security and services from physical-to-physical and physical-to-virtual workloads. 6Table of Contents•Cost Performance. Cloud networks must deliver high performance while lowering overall cost of ownership, including capital and operational costs.Our Cloud Networking SolutionsWe are a leading supplier of cloud networking solutions that use software innovations to address the needs of large-scale Internet companies, cloud service providers and next-generation enterprise data centers. Our cloud networking platform was purpose-built to address the functional and performance requirements for cloud networks. We deliver our solutions via our industry-leading 10/25/40/50/100 Gigabit Ethernet switches and routers optimized for next-generation data center networks.Our cloud networking solutions consist of EOS, our Extensible Operating System, a set of networking applications and our Gigabit Ethernet platforms. At the core of our cloud networking platform is EOS, which was architected to be fully programmable and highly modular.The programmability of EOS has allowed us to create a set of software applications and application programming interfaces, or APIs, that address the requirements of cloud networking, including workflow automation, network visibility and analytics, and has further allowed us to integrate rapidly with a wide range of third-party applications for virtualization, management, automation, orchestration and network services.The key benefits of our cloud networking solutions are as follows:Capacity, Performance and ScalabilityOur cloud networking platform enables data center networks to scale to hundreds of thousands of physical servers and millions of virtual machines with the least number of switching tiers. We achieve this by leveraging standard protocols to meet the scale requirements of cloud computing. We have used active-active Layer 2 and Layer 3 network topologies to enable customers to build extremely large and resilient networks.High AvailabilityOur highly modular EOS software architecture was designed to be fault-isolating and self-healing in order to deliver higher stability compared to legacy network operating systems. In addition, our customers can non-disruptively upgrade our switches running in the network using our Smart System Upgrade, or SSU, application.Open and ProgrammableOur EOS software was purpose-built to offer programmable interfaces throughout all levels of our software. This has allowed us to integrate our cloud networking platform with a wide range of leading third-party applications. For example, we support VMware NSX, OpenStack and Microsoft System Center for orchestration and fast provisioning, enabling true workload mobility and automatic provisioning of physical switches. We enable customers, through application programming interfaces, to write their own scripts to customize and optimize their networks. In addition, we support a wide range of software-defined network controllers via our OpenFlow and DirectFlow interfaces.Workflow AutomationOur EOS software enables enterprises to provision networking resources in minutes with no manual intervention through our Zero Touch Provisioning. We also natively support Ansible, CFEngine, Chef, Puppet, virtual network orchestration applications and third-party management tools. CloudVision, a network-wide approach for workload orchestration and workflow automation delivers a turnkey solution for cloud networking. CloudVision extends the same EOS architectural approach across the network for state, topology, monitoring and visibility. This enables enterprises to move to cloud-class automation without needing significant internal development. Finally, EOS embraces the DevOps model, which is a software development method that combines development and operations, to provision and monitor servers, storage and network resources in a unified fashion.Network VisibilityOur EOS software provides a set of tools and applications that proactively monitor, detect and notify network managers when network issues arise, delivering real-time data to third-party management applications including Corvil, ExtraHop, Riverbed and Splunk to provide detailed application visibility. Our telemetry applications include VM Tracer, which provides visibility down to the virtual machine level, Path Tracer, which detects errors in provisioned network paths, MapReduce Tracer, which monitors and optimizes the performance of Hadoop workloads, and Health Tracer, which monitors infrastructure resiliency. Our network visibility applications provide real-time insight into the status of the network. They include LANZ, which monitors latency, and DANZ 2017, a set of features previously only available in add-on network visibility devices, which provides advanced traffic monitoring with flow analysis and timestamps, plus the ability to perform tap aggregation for reporting and analysis.7Table of ContentsSecurity Macro-Segmentation Services (MSS™) is one of the services enabled via Arista CloudVision. Since CloudVision maintains a network-wide database of all state within the network, as well as direct integration with hypervisor resources like VMware vSphere and NSX.  It is aware of every workload that is within the network and it learns in real time about new devices or workloads that are added or removed from the network, or moved across ports or servers.  Macro-segmentation extends the concept of fine-grained inter-hypervisor security to cloud networks by enabling dynamic security and services for physical to virtual workloads. Macro-segmentation security is a complement to fine-grained security delivered via micro-segmentation that is already implemented in the virtual switch of the physical host on which a VM is running.Lower Total Cost of OwnershipOur cloud networking platform offers architectural and system advantages that provide our customers with cost-effective and highly available cloud networking solutions. Our programmable, scalable leaf-spine architectures, combined with industry-leading applications, significantly reduce networking costs when compared to legacy network designs, enabling faster time to service and improved availability. Our automation tools reduce the operational costs of provisioning, managing and monitoring a data center network and speed up service delivery. Our visibility tools provide high levels of visibility into complex network environments without the need for additional data collection equipment. As a result, fewer network engineers are needed to operate large networks.Our Market OpportunityWe compete primarily in the data center switching market for 10 Gigabit Ethernet and above, excluding blade switches.We believe that cloud computing represents a fundamental shift from traditional legacy data centers and that cloud networking is the fastest growing segment within the data center switching market. As organizations of all sizes are adopting cloud architectures, spending on cloud and next-generation data centers has increased rapidly over the last several years, while traditional legacy IT spending has been growing more slowly.  In 2017, our 7150, 7050, 7250, 7300 and 7500 Series platforms are now listed on the U. S. Department of Defense Approved Products Lists Integrated Tracking System by the Defense Information Systems Agency.Our CustomersAs of December 31, 2016, we had delivered our cloud networking solutions to over 4,200 end customers worldwide in over 80 countries. Our end customers span a range of industries and include large Internet companies, service providers, financial services organizations, government agencies, media and entertainment companies and others. For each of the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015, and 2014, Microsoft purchases, through our channel partner World Wide Technology, Inc., accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue.Our Competitive StrengthsWe believe the following strengths will allow us to maintain and extend our technology leadership position in cloud networking and next-generation data center Ethernet products:•Purpose-Built Cloud Networking Platform. We have developed a highly scalable cloud networking platform that uses software to address the needs of large-scale Internet companies, cloud service providers, financial services organizations, government agencies and media and entertainment companies, including virtualization, big data and low-latency applications. As a result, our cloud networking platform does not have the inherent limitations of legacy network architectures.•Broad and Differentiated Portfolio. Using multiple silicon architectures, we deliver switches and routers with industry-leading capacity, low latency, port density and power efficiency and have innovated in areas such as deep packet buffers, embedded optics and reversible cooling. Our broad portfolio has allowed us to offer customers products that best match their specific requirements.•Single Binary Image Software. The single binary image of EOS software allows us to maintain feature consistency across our entire product portfolio and enables us to introduce new software innovations into the market that become available to our entire installed base without a “forklift upgrade” (i.e., a broad upgrade of the data center infrastructure).•Rapid Development of New Features and Applications. Our highly modular EOS software has allowed us to rapidly deliver new features and applications while preserving the structural integrity and quality of our network operating system. We believe our ability to deliver new features and capabilities more quickly than legacy switch/router operators, provides us with a strategic advantage given that the requirements in cloud and next-generation data center networking continue to evolve rapidly.•Deep Understanding of Customer Requirements. We have developed close working relationships with many of our largest customers that provide us with insights about their needs and future requirements. This has allowed us to develop and deliver products to market that meet customer demands and expectations as well as to rapidly grow sales to existing customers.•Strong Management and Engineering Team with Significant Data Center Networking Expertise. Our management and engineering team consists of networking veterans with extensive data center networking expertise. Our President and Chief Executive Officer, Jayshree Ullal, with 30+ years of networking expertise from silicon to systems companies.  Andy Bechtolsheim, 8Table of Contentsour Founder and Chief Development Officer, was previously a Founder and chief system architect at Sun Microsystems.  Kenneth Duda, our Founder and Chief Technology Officer, led the software development effort of EOS.•Significant Technology Lead. We believe that our networking technology represents a fundamental advance in networking software. Our EOS software is state-driven and the result of more than 1,000 man-years of research and development investment over a ten-year period with 10+ million lines of code as a key cloud networking software stack.Our Products and TechnologyWe offer one of the broadest product lines of data center 10/25/40/50/100 Gigabit Ethernet switches and routers in the industry, comprising our 7010 Series, 7050X Series, 7060X Series, 7160 Series, 7150 Series, 7250X Series, 7260 Series, 7280R Series Universal Leaf products, 7300X Series Spline products, and our 7500R Series Universal Spine products.We deliver routing and switching platforms with industry-leading capacity, low latency, port density and power efficiency. We have also innovated in areas such as deep packet buffers, embedded optics and reversible cooling. Our products have been recognized with a number of awards, including the Best of Interop Grand Prize that was given to our industry-leading spine switch, the Arista 7500 Series, in 2010 and again, to the Arista 7500E Series, in 2013. An overview of our switching/routing portfolio is shown in the figure below.    We use multiple silicon architectures across our products, which allows us to build a broader range of products optimized for different functions in the network than competitors that utilize fewer silicon architectures. While we use multiple silicon architectures, all of our platforms are powered with the same binary EOS image, which significantly simplifies deployment and ensures the same rich feature set and consistent operation across all our products.Our Extensible Operating SystemThe core of our cloud networking platform is our Extensible Operating System, or EOS, which runs on top of standard Linux and offers programmability at all layers of the stack. All of our 10/25/40/50/100 Gigabit Ethernet platforms run our EOS software.EOS is based on a new and innovative architecture that is highly modular and consists of more than 100 separate processes that we call agents, each one handling specific protocol processing, device driver or system management functions. Each agent runs in user space as a separate Linux process and is completely protected and isolated from all other agents.We are constantly investing in our core infrastructure to provide the capabilities required for building modern cloud networks, most recently by extending SysDB into NetDB™ and enhancing scalability. New requirements use in cloud and service provider networks and hybrid cloud deployments in enterprises require on-going upgrades and extensions to our state oriented architecture. EOS AttributesThe modular and programmable architecture of EOS enables us to offer a set of attributes, capabilities and features that are essential for cloud networking and next-generation data centers.High AvailabilityEOS is self-healing in the sense that individual processes can be restarted without impacting application traffic. This architectural design principle supports self-healing resiliency in our software, easier software maintenance and module independence, higher software quality overall, and faster time-to-market for new features that customers require.Programmable at All LayersEOS is programmable at all layers from the Linux kernel to switch configuration, provisioning, automation and detailed monitoring of the network.  Public cloud providers have leveraged tools such as the EOS Software Development Kit ("SDK") and eAPI to implement fully customized infrastructure automation solutions.9Table of ContentsWorkflow VisibilityThrough EOS, we have developed a wide range of applications available to our customers for purchase as additional licenses that enable enhanced network monitoring and visibility without requiring additional external monitoring devices.  This includes (i) DataANalyZer (DANZ), which provides access to raw network data for analysis by security, troubleshooting and performance management tools, (ii) Latency/loss ANalyZer (LANZ), which provides access to internal network performance loads and packet loss and latency occurring at the microsecond level, (iii) Network Telemetry, which provides network state information including correlations with dynamic state of the systems operating on the network such as Hypervisors, distributed job controls and (iv) Network Tracers, which provide active integration and diagnostics for various workload conditions dependent upon network performance.Network AutomationEOS supports Puppet, Chef and Ansible, which enables automatic network configuration in the same manner as servers and storage. In addition, EOS provides tools that greatly reduce network operational costs.  Another major component of network automation is Cloud Vision.CloudVisionCloudVision’s abstraction of the physical network to a broader, network-wide perspective allows for a more efficient approach for several operational use-cases, including the following highlights:•Centralized representation of distributed network state, allowing for a single point of integration and network-wide visibility and analytics;•Controller agnostic support for physical and virtual workload orchestration through open APIs such as OVSDB, JSON and Openstack plugins;•Turn-key automation for zero touch provisioning, configuration management and network-wide upgrades and rollback;•Compliance Dashboard for Security, Audit and patch management;•Real-time Streaming for Telemetry and Network Analytics, a modern approach to replace legacy polling per device;•Provides visibility and troubleshooting for underlay and overlay networks; and•Enables Macro-Segmentation Services which provides a dynamic and scalable network service to logically insert security devices into the path of traffic, regardless of whether the security device or workload is physical or virtual and with complete flexibility on placement of security devices and workloads.Leaf-Spine Network DesignsOur customers typically deploy leaf-spine network topologies consisting of leaf switches or top-of-rack switches, located in the server rack connected with uplinks to multiple load-sharing spine switches and routers that provide the backbone. Our leaf-spine network designs scale up to more than 300,000 physical servers and millions of virtual machines using Equal Cost Multiple Path, or ECMP, to load balance Layer 3 network traffic across multiple spine switches and routers. With Multi-Chassis Link Aggregation, or MLAG, we can build an active-active Layer 2 network that can connect more than 25,000 physical servers. Our leaf-spine network designs have been widely deployed and provide predictable network bandwidth and latency. A key advantage of predictable network performance is that it eliminates the need to optimize the network for specific applications, which means a single network design works equally well for all applications.Enterprise resources commonly span multiple datacenters or Performance Optimized Datacenters or PODs within a data center, including the public cloud. The drive to deliver resources quickly, affordably, and reliably also drives the need for a flexible, cost-effective, scale-out design at the datacenter core, which we refer to as the “spine of spines” or Universal Spine. The Universal Spine is non-blocking, supports large scale ECMP, IP routing and routing convergence.  The Universal Spine enables architects to build the network around the spine and collapse legacy networking layers into the Universal Spine.     10Table of ContentsExamples of our leaf-spine and universal leaf-spine architectures are illustrated below.Customer Support and ServicesWe have designed our customer support offerings to provide our customers with high levels of support. Our global team of support engineers engages directly with client IT teams and is available at all times over e-mail, by phone or through our website.We offer multiple service options that allow our customers to select the product replacement service level that best meets their needs. We stock spare parts in over 125 locations around the world through our third-party logistics suppliers. All of our service options include unlimited access to bug-fixes, new feature-releases, online case management and our community forums.Sales and MarketingWe market and sell our products through our direct sales force and in partnership with our channel partners, including distributors, value-added resellers, systems integrators and OEM partners. We also sell in conjunction with various technology partners. To facilitate channel coordination and increase productivity, we have created a partner program, the Arista Partner Program, to engage partners who provide value-added services and extend our reach into the marketplace. Authorized training partners perform technical training of our channel partners and end customers. Our partners commonly receive an order from an end customer prior to placing an order with us, and we confirm the identification of the end customer prior to accepting such orders. Our partners generally do not stock inventory received from us.Our sales organization is supported by systems engineers with deep technical expertise and responsibility for pre-sales technical support and solutions engineering for our end customers, systems integrators, original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, and channel partners. A pool of shared channel sales and marketing representatives also supports these teams. Each sales team is responsible for a geographical territory, has responsibility for a number of major direct end-customer accounts or has assigned accounts in a specific vertical market. We have field sales teams operating in over 80 countries. Our marketing activities consist primarily of technology conferences, web marketing, trade shows, product demonstrations, seminars and events, public relations, analyst relations, demand generation and direct marketing to build our brand, increase end-customer awareness, communicate our product advantages and generate qualified leads for our field sales force and channel partners.Research and DevelopmentWe believe our future success depends on our ability to develop new products and features that address the needs of our end customers. Our in-house engineering personnel are responsible for the development, quality, documentation, support and release of our products. We plan to continue to invest significantly in resources to conduct our research and development efforts.  Our research and development expense was $273.6 million, $209.4 million and $148.9 million in 2016, 2015 and 2014 respectively.ManufacturingWe subcontract the manufacturing of all of our products to various contract manufacturers. Our primary manufacturing partners are Jabil Circuit, Sanmina Corporation and Foxconn.  This approach allows us to reduce our costs, manufacturing overhead and inventory position and allows us to adjust more quickly to changing end-customer demand. We require all of our manufacturing locations to be ISO-9001 certified. Our EOS software is installed on our products at one of three direct fulfillment facilities.Our contract manufacturing partners procure the majority of the components needed to build our products and assemble our products according to our design specifications. This allows us to leverage the purchasing power of our contract manufacturing partners. 11Table of ContentsWe retain complete control over the bill of material, test procedures and quality assurance programs. Our on-site personnel work closely with our partners and review on an ongoing basis forecasts, inventory levels, processes, capacity, yields and overall quality. Our contract manufacturing partners procure components and assemble our products based on our demand forecasts. These forecasts represent our estimates of future demand for our products based upon historical trends and analyses from our sales and product management functions as adjusted for overall market conditions. We update these forecasts monthly.Our products rely on key components, including merchant silicon, integrated circuit components and power supplies purchased from a limited number of suppliers, including certain sole source providers. Generally, neither our contract manufacturers nor we have a written agreement with any of these component providers to guarantee the supply of the key components used in our products nor do we have exclusive rights to such key components. Our product development efforts also depend upon continued collaboration with our key suppliers, including our merchant silicon vendors such as Broadcom and Intel. As we develop our product roadmap and continue to expand our relationships with these and other merchant silicon vendors, it is critical that we work in tandem with our key merchant silicon vendors to ensure that their silicon includes improved features and that ou