BUSINESSOverview Accenture is one of the world’s leading professional services companies with more than 358,000 people serving clients in a broad range of industries and in three geographic regions: North America, Europe and Growth Markets. Our five operating groups, organized by industry, deliver services and solutions in strategy, consulting, application services and operations to our clients. Digital-related services are an increasingly important component of these services and solutions. For fiscal 2015, our revenues before reimbursements (“net revenues”) were $31.0 billion.We operate globally with one common brand and business model, allowing us to provide clients around the world with the same high level of service. Drawing on a combination of industry and functional expertise, technology capabilities and alliances, and our global delivery resources, we seek to provide differentiated services that help our clients measurably improve their business performance and create sustainable value for their customers and stakeholders. Our global delivery model enables us to provide an end-to-end delivery capability by drawing on our global resources to deliver high-quality, cost-effective solutions to our clients. In fiscal 2015, we continued to implement a strategy focused on industry and technology differentiation, leveraging our global organization to serve clients in locally relevant ways. We continued to make significant investments—in strategic acquisitions, in assets and offerings, in branding and thought leadership, and in attracting and developing talent—to further enhance our differentiation and competitiveness. Operating Groups Our five operating groups are Accenture’s reporting segments and primary market channel, organized around 13 industry groups that serve clients globally in more than 40 industries. (We have consolidated our 19 previous industry groups into 13 industry groups to better align with classifications commonly used in the marketplace.) Our industry focus gives us an understanding of industry evolution, business issues and applicable technologies, enabling us to deliver innovative solutions tailored to each client or, as appropriate, more standardized capabilities to multiple clients. The operating groups assemble integrated client 1Table of Contentsengagement teams, which typically consist of industry experts, capability specialists and professionals with local market knowledge. The operating groups have primary responsibility for building and sustaining long-term client relationships; providing management and technology consulting services; working with the other parts of our business to sell and deliver the full suite of our services, including our global delivery capabilities; ensuring client satisfaction; and achieving revenue and profitability objectives.The following table shows the current organization of our five operating groups and their 13 industry groups. We do not allocate total assets by operating group, although our operating groups do manage and control certain assets. For certain historical financial information regarding our operating groups (including certain asset information), as well as financial information by geography (including long-lived asset information), see Note 16 (Segment Reporting) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”Operating Groups and Industry GroupsCommunications, Media & TechnologyFinancial ServicesHealth & Public ServiceProductsResources •  Communications •  Electronics & High Tech •  Media & Entertainment •  Banking & Capital Markets •  Insurance •  Health •  Public Service •  Consumer Goods, Retail & Travel Services •  Industrial •  Life Sciences •  Chemicals & Natural Resources •  Energy •  UtilitiesCommunications, Media & TechnologyOur Communications, Media & Technology operating group serves the communications, electronics, high technology, media and entertainment industries. Professionals in this operating group help clients accelerate and deliver digital transformation, enhance business results through industry-specific solutions and seize the opportunities made possible by the convergence of communications, computing and content. Examples of our services include helping clients run cost-effective operations, create business model innovations, introduce new products and services, and digitally engage and entertain their customers. Our Communications, Media & Technology operating group comprises the following industry groups:•Our Communications industry group serves most of the world’s leading wireline, wireless, cable and satellite communications and service providers. This group represented approximately 51% of our Communications, Media & Technology operating group’s net revenues in fiscal 2015. •Our Electronics & High Tech industry group serves the information and communications technology, software, semiconductor, consumer electronics, aerospace and defense, and medical equipment industries. This group represented approximately 37% of our Communications, Media & Technology operating group’s net revenues in fiscal 2015.•Our Media & Entertainment industry group serves the broadcast, entertainment, print, publishing and Internet/social media industries. This group represented approximately 12% of our Communications, Media & Technology operating group’s net revenues in fiscal 2015.Financial ServicesOur Financial Services operating group serves the banking, capital markets and insurance industries. Professionals in this operating group work with clients to address growth, cost and profitability pressures, industry consolidation, regulatory changes and the need to continually adapt to new, digital technologies. We offer services designed to help our clients increase cost efficiency, grow their customer base, manage risk and transform their operations. Our Financial Services operating group comprises the following industry groups: •Our Banking & Capital Markets industry group serves retail and commercial banks, mortgage lenders, investment banks, wealth and asset management firms, broker/dealers, depositories, exchanges, clearing and settlement organizations, and other diversified financial enterprises. This group represented approximately 71% of our Financial Services operating group’s net revenues in fiscal 2015. •Our Insurance industry group serves property and casualty insurers, life insurers, reinsurance firms and insurance brokers. This group represented approximately 29% of our Financial Services operating group’s net revenues in fiscal 2015.Health & Public Service Our Health & Public Service operating group serves healthcare payers and providers, as well as government departments and agencies, public service organizations, educational institutions and non-profit organizations around the world. The group’s research-based insights and offerings, including digital solutions, are designed to help clients deliver better social, economic and health outcomes to the people they serve. Our Health & Public Service operating group comprises the following industry groups:•Our Health industry group works with healthcare providers, such as hospitals, public health systems, policy-making authorities, health insurers (payers), and industry organizations and associations around the world to improve the quality, 2Table of Contentsaccessibility and productivity of healthcare. This group represented approximately 38% of our Health & Public Service operating group’s net revenues in fiscal 2015. •Our Public Service industry group helps governments transform the way they deliver public services and engage with citizens. We work primarily with defense departments and military forces; public safety authorities, such as police forces and border management agencies; justice departments; human services agencies; educational institutions, such as universities; non-profit organizations; and postal, customs, revenue and tax agencies. Our work with clients in the U.S. federal government is delivered through Accenture Federal Services, a U.S. company and a wholly owned subsidiary of Accenture LLP. Our Public Service industry group represented approximately 62% of our Health & Public Service operating group’s net revenues in fiscal 2015. Our work with clients in the U.S. federal government represented approximately 35% of our Health & Public Service operating group’s net revenues in fiscal 2015. Products Our Products operating group serves a set of increasingly interconnected consumer-relevant industries. Our offerings are designed to help clients transform their organizations and increase their relevance in the digital world. We help clients enhance their performance in distribution and sales and marketing; in research and development and manufacturing; and in business functions such as finance, human resources, procurement and supply chain while leveraging technology. Our Products operating group comprises the following industry groups: •Our Consumer Goods, Retail & Travel Services industry group serves food and beverage, household goods, personal care, tobacco, fashion/apparel, agribusiness and consumer health companies; supermarkets, hardline retailers, mass-merchandise discounters, department stores and specialty retailers; as well as airlines and hospitality and travel services companies. This group represented approximately 55% of our Products operating group’s net revenues in fiscal 2015.•Our Industrial industry group works with automotive manufacturers and suppliers; freight and logistics companies; industrial and electrical equipment, consumer durable and heavy equipment companies; and construction and infrastructure management companies. This group represented approximately 25% of our Products operating group’s net revenues in fiscal 2015. •Our Life Sciences industry group serves pharmaceutical, medical technology and biotechnology companies. This group represented approximately 20% of our Products operating group’s net revenues in fiscal 2015.Resources Our Resources operating group serves the chemicals, energy, forest products, metals and mining, utilities and related industries. We work with clients to develop and execute innovative strategies, improve operations, manage complex change initiatives and integrate digital technologies designed to help them differentiate themselves in the marketplace, gain competitive advantage and manage their large-scale capital investments. Our Resources operating group comprises the following industry groups: •Our Chemicals & Natural Resources industry group works with a wide range of industry segments, including petrochemicals, specialty chemicals, polymers and plastics, gases and agricultural chemicals, among others, as well as the metals, mining, forest products and building materials industries. This group represented approximately 32% of our Resources operating group’s net revenues in fiscal 2015.•Our Energy industry group serves a wide range of companies in the oil and gas industry, including upstream, downstream, oil services and new energy companies. This group represented approximately 32% of our Resources operating group’s net revenues in fiscal 2015. •Our Utilities industry group works with electric, gas and water utilities around the world. This group represented approximately 36% of our Resources operating group’s net revenues in fiscal 2015. Services and SolutionsOur operating groups bring together expertise from Accenture Strategy, Accenture Consulting, Accenture Digital, Accenture Technology and Accenture Operations to develop and deliver integrated services and solutions for our clients. Accenture Strategy Accenture Strategy helps clients achieve specific business outcomes and enhance shareholder value by defining and executing industry-specific strategies enabled by technology. We bring together our strategy capabilities in business and technology to help senior management teams shape and execute their transformation objectives, focusing on issues related to digital disruption, competitiveness, global operating models, and the workforce of the future. We provide a range of strategy services focused on areas such as digital technologies; enterprise architecture and applications; finance and enterprise performance; IT; mergers and acquisitions; operations; sales and customer services; sustainability; and talent and organization.3Table of ContentsAccenture ConsultingAccenture Consulting provides industry experts with the insights and management and technology consulting capabilities to transform the world’s leading companies. Accenture Consulting has primary responsibility for orchestrating expertise from across our entire organization to enable our clients to transform their businesses. Our management consulting capabilities enable our clients to design and implement transformational change programs, either for one or more functions or business units, or across their entire organizations. Our service areas include industry consulting services and functional consulting services, including finance and enterprise performance; supply chain, sourcing and procurement; talent and organization; and sales and customer service. Our technology consulting capabilities enable our clients to manage technology programs, as well as to transform their technology and IT organizations. We provide program management and program recovery services, as well as technology consulting services, with a particular focus on integrating new digital solutions with existing legacy systems.Accenture DigitalAccenture Digital combines our capabilities in digital marketing, analytics and mobility to help clients provide better experiences for the customers they serve, create new products and business models, and enhance their digital enterprise capabilities. We provide digital services across two broad areas:•Digital Customers, Channels & Markets. We help clients use digital technologies to deliver more meaningful and relevant customer experiences across all channels, customer segments and geographies. Our services focus on digital customer interactions, sales and channel distribution options. Our services span social networks, social media, digital marketing, direct-to-consumer and eCommerce platforms, as well as mobile commerce and mobility services.•Digital Enterprise. We help clients use digital technologies to optimize the efficiency and effectiveness of their internal operations. Our services transform business processes, enable new operating models and connected product platforms, and enhance productivity through advanced analytics and collaboration capabilities. Accenture Technology Accenture Technology comprises two primary areas: technology delivery and technology innovation & ecosystem.•Technology Delivery. Technology Delivery includes our application services spanning systems integration and application outsourcing and covering the full application lifecycle, from custom systems to all emerging technologies, across every leading technology platform (both traditional and cloud/Software as a Service-based). It also includes our portfolio of software solutions and our global delivery capability in Technology. We continuously innovate and leverage intelligent tools and other automation to improve delivery efficiency and productivity.•Technology Innovation & Ecosystem. We harness innovation through the research and development activities in our Technology Labs and through emerging technologies. We also manage our technology platforms and our alliance relationships across a broad range of technology providers, including SAP, Oracle, Microsoft, salesforce.com, Workday, Pegasystems and many others, to enhance the value that we and our clients realize from the technology ecosystem. Accenture Operations Accenture Operations provides business process outsourcing, infrastructure consulting, infrastructure outsourcing, security services and cloud services, including the Accenture Cloud Platform. We operate infrastructure and business processes on behalf of clients, increasingly on an as-a-service basis, to help improve their productivity and performance. •Business Process Outsourcing Services. We offer services for specific business functions, such as finance and accounting, procurement, marketing, human resources and learning, as well as industry-specific services, such as credit and health services. We provide these services on a global basis and across industry sectors through our Global Delivery Network.•Infrastructure and Cloud Services. We provide infrastructure and security design, implementation and operation services to help organizations take advantage of innovative technologies and improve the efficiency and effectiveness of their existing technology. Our solutions help clients optimize their IT infrastructures—whether on-premise, in the cloud, or a hybrid of the two. Global Delivery Model A key differentiator is our global delivery model, which allows us to draw on the benefits of using people and other resources from around the world—including scalable, standardized processes, methods and tools; industry expertise and specialized capabilities; cost advantages; foreign language fluency; proximity to clients; and time zone advantages—to deliver high-quality solutions. Emphasizing quality, productivity, reduced risk, speed to market and predictability, our global delivery model supports all parts of our business to provide clients with price-competitive services and solutions. 4Table of ContentsOur Global Delivery Network continues to be a competitive differentiator for us. As of August 31, 2015, we had approximately 257,000 professionals in our network globally in more than 50 delivery centers around the world, as well as Accenture offices and client locations.Alliances We have sales and delivery alliances with companies whose capabilities complement our own by, among other things, enhancing a service offering, delivering a new technology or helping us extend our services to new geographies. By combining our alliance partners’ products and services with our own capabilities and expertise, we create innovative, high-value business solutions for our clients. Most of our alliances are non-exclusive. These alliances can generate significant revenues from services we provide to implement our alliance partners’ products as well as revenue from the resale of their products. We also receive as reimbursement some direct payments, which are not material to our business, from our alliance partners to cover costs we incur for marketing and other assistance. Research and Innovation We are committed to developing leading-edge ideas. Research and innovation, which is a component of our overall investment in our business, have been major factors in our success, and we believe they will help us continue to grow in the future. We use our investment in research and development—on which we spent $626 million, $640 million and $715 million in fiscal 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively—to help create, commercialize and disseminate innovative business strategies and technology solutions.Our research and innovation program is designed to generate early insights into how knowledge can be harnessed to create innovative business solutions for our clients and to develop business strategies with significant value. One component of this is our research and development organization, Accenture Technology Labs, where we identify and develop new technologies. We also promote the creation of knowledge capital and thought leadership through the Accenture Institute for High Performance. In addition, we spend a significant portion of our research and development investment to develop market-ready solutions for our clients. Employees As a talent-led organization, one of our key goals is to have the best talent, with highly specialized skills, at the right levels in the right locations, to enhance our differentiation and competitiveness. We are deeply committed to the career development of our employees, who receive significant and focused technical, functional, industry, managerial and leadership skill development and training appropriate for their roles and levels within the Company. We provide our people with expert content and opportunities to collaborate in a broad range of physical and virtual learning environments. We seek to reinforce our employees’ commitments to our clients, culture and values through a comprehensive performance management and compensation system and a career philosophy that provides rewards based on individual and Company performance. With our commitment to inclusion and diversity, we strive to maintain a work environment that reinforces collaboration, motivation and innovation and is consistent with our core values and Code of Business Ethics. As of August 31, 2015, we employed more than 358,000 people and had offices and operations in more than 200 cities in 55 countries. Competition We operate in a highly competitive and rapidly changing global marketplace and compete with a variety of organizations that offer services and solutions competitive with those we offer. Our competitors include: •large multinational providers, including the services arms of large global technology providers (hardware, equipment and software), that offer some or all of the services and solutions that we do;•off-shore service providers in lower-cost locations, particularly in India, that offer services globally that are similar to the services and solutions we offer; •accounting firms that provide consulting and other services and solutions in areas that compete with us; •niche solution or service providers or local competitors that compete with us in a specific geographic market, industry segment or service area, such as digital agencies, including companies that provide new or alternative products, services or delivery models; and•in-house departments of large corporations that use their own resources, rather than engage an outside firm for the types of services and solutions we provide.5Table of ContentsOur revenues are derived primarily from Fortune Global 500 and Fortune 1000 companies, medium-sized companies, governments, government agencies and other enterprises. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the industries in which we compete include: •skills and capabilities of people; •technical and industry expertise; •innovative service and product offerings; •ability to add business value and improve performance; •reputation and client references; •contractual terms, including competitive pricing; •ability to deliver results reliably and on a timely basis; •scope of services; •service delivery approach; •quality of services and solutions;•availability of appropriate resources; and•global reach and scale, including level of presence in key emerging markets.Our clients typically retain us on a non-exclusive basis. Intellectual Property We provide value to our clients based in part on a differentiated range of proprietary inventions, methodologies, software, reusable knowledge capital and other intellectual property. We recognize the increasing value of intellectual property in the marketplace and create, harvest, and protect this intellectual property. We leverage patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark laws as well as contractual arrangements to protect our intellectual property. We have also established policies to respect the intellectual property rights of third parties, such as our clients, partners and others. As of August 31, 2015, we had over 2,400 patent applications pending worldwide and had been issued over 1,150 U.S. patents and 1,450 non-U.S. patents. Trademarks appearing in this report are the trademarks or registered trademarks of Accenture Global Services Ltd or third parties, as applicable.Organizational StructureAccenture plc is an Irish public limited company with no material assets other than ordinary and deferred shares in its subsidiary, Accenture Holdings plc, an Irish public limited company. Accenture plc owns a majority voting interest in Accenture Holdings plc, and Accenture plc’s only business is to hold these shares. As a result, Accenture plc controls Accenture Holdings plc’s management and operations and consolidates Accenture Holdings plc’s results in its Consolidated Financial Statements. We operate our business through subsidiaries of Accenture Holdings plc. Accenture Holdings plc generally reimburses Accenture plc for its expenses but does not pay Accenture plc any fees. HistoryPrior to our transition to a corporate structure in fiscal 2001, we operated as a series of related partnerships and corporations under the control of our partners. In connection with our transition to a corporate structure, our partners generally exchanged all of their interests in these partnerships and corporations for Accenture Ltd Class A common shares or, in the case of partners in certain countries, Class I common shares of Accenture SCA, a Luxembourg partnership limited by shares and direct subsidiary of Accenture Ltd (“Accenture SCA”), or exchangeable shares issued by Accenture Canada Holdings Inc., an indirect subsidiary of Accenture SCA. Generally, partners who received Accenture SCA Class I common shares or Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares also received a corresponding number of Accenture Ltd Class X common shares, which entitled their holders to vote at Accenture Ltd shareholder meetings but did not carry any economic rights. The combination of the Accenture Ltd Class X common shares and the Accenture SCA Class I common shares or Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares gave these partners substantially similar economic and governance rights as holders of Accenture Ltd Class A common shares.On June 10, 2009, Accenture plc was incorporated in Ireland, as a public limited company, in order to effect moving the place of incorporation of our parent holding company from Bermuda to Ireland. This transaction was completed on September 1, 2009, at which time Accenture Ltd, our predecessor holding company, became a wholly owned subsidiary of Accenture plc and Accenture plc became our parent holding company. Accenture Ltd was dissolved on December 29, 2009.6Table of ContentsOn June 26, 2015, the shareholders of Accenture SCA approved a merger of Accenture SCA with and into Accenture Holdings plc, with Accenture Holdings plc as the surviving entity (the “Merger”). The Merger, which was completed on August 26, 2015, further consolidated the Accenture group in Ireland. In connection with the Merger, Accenture SCA was dissolved without going into liquidation, and, by operation of law, all of the assets and liabilities of Accenture SCA were transferred to Accenture Holdings plc, and contracts, agreements or instruments to which Accenture SCA was a party were construed and have effect as if Accenture Holdings plc had been a party thereto instead of Accenture SCA. Holders of Accenture SCA Class I common shares (other than Accenture SCA itself) received, on a one-for-one basis, ordinary shares of Accenture Holdings plc. Prior to the Merger, Accenture Holdings plc had not engaged in any business or other activities other than in connection with its formation and the Merger. The Merger was a transaction between entities under common control and had no effect on the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.All references to Accenture Holdings plc included in this report with respect to periods prior to August 26, 2015 reflect the activity and/or balances of Accenture SCA (the predecessor of Accenture Holdings plc). The Consolidated Financial Statements reflect the ownership interests in Accenture Holdings plc and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. held by certain current and former members of Accenture Leadership as noncontrolling interests. “Accenture Leadership” is comprised of members of our global management committee (the Company’s primary management and leadership team, which consists of 20 of our most senior leaders), senior managing directors and managing directors. The noncontrolling ownership interests percentage was 5% as of August 31, 2015. Accenture plc Class A and Class X Ordinary SharesEach Class A ordinary share and each Class X ordinary share of Accenture plc entitles its holder to one vote on all matters submitted to a vote of shareholders of Accenture plc. A Class X ordinary share does not, however, entitle its holder to receive dividends or to receive payments upon a liquidation of Accenture plc. As described above under “—History,” Class X ordinary shares generally provide the holders of Accenture Holdings plc ordinary shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares with a vote at Accenture plc shareholder meetings that is equivalent to the voting rights held by Accenture plc Class A ordinary shareholders, while their economic rights consist of interests in Accenture Holdings plc ordinary shares or in Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares.Under its memorandum and articles of association, Accenture plc may redeem, at its option, any Class X ordinary share for a redemption price equal to the nominal value of the Class X ordinary share, or $0.0000225 per share. Accenture plc, as successor to Accenture Ltd, has separately agreed with the original holders of Accenture Holdings plc ordinary shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares not to redeem any Class X ordinary share of such holder if the redemption would reduce the number of Class X ordinary shares held by that holder to a number that is less than the number of Accenture Holdings plc ordinary shares or Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares owned by that holder. Accenture plc will redeem Class X ordinary shares upon the redemption or exchange of Accenture Holdings plc ordinary shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares so that the aggregate number of Class X ordinary shares outstanding at any time does not exceed the aggregate number of Accenture Holdings plc ordinary shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares outstanding. Class X ordinary shares are not transferable without the consent of Accenture plc.A transfer of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares effected by transfer of a book-entry interest in The Depository Trust Company will not be subject to Irish stamp duty. Other transfers of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares may be subject to Irish stamp duty (currently at the rate of 1% of the price paid or the market value of the Class A ordinary shares acquired, if higher) payable by the buyer.Accenture Holdings plc Ordinary and Deferred SharesOnly Accenture plc, Accenture Holdings plc, Accenture International S.à.r.l. and certain current and former members of Accenture Leadership and their permitted transferees hold Accenture Holdings plc ordinary shares. Each ordinary share entitles its holder to one vote on all matters submitted to the shareholders of Accenture Holdings plc and entitles its holder to dividends and liquidation payments. As of October 16, 2015, Accenture plc holds a voting interest of approximately 96% of the aggregate outstanding Accenture Holdings plc ordinary shares entitled to vote, with the remaining 4% of the voting interest held by certain current and former members of Accenture Leadership and their permitted transferees.Only Accenture plc beneficially holds Accenture Holdings plc deferred shares. The deferred shares were issued solely to ensure that Accenture Holdings plc satisfies Irish law minimum share capital requirements for public limited companies at all times and carry no voting rights or income rights and have only limited rights on a return of capital equal to the nominal value of those shares.Holders of ordinary shares of Accenture Holdings plc have the ability, subject to the restrictions on redemption contained in Accenture Holdings plc’s articles of association and the Companies Act 2014 of Ireland (the “Companies Act”) and any contractual restrictions on redemption that may be applicable to a holder, to require that Accenture Holdings plc redeem all or a portion of such holder’s ordinary shares of Accenture Holdings plc. In that case, Accenture Holdings plc is obligated, subject to 7Table of Contentsthe availability of distributable reserves, to redeem any such ordinary shares of Accenture Holdings plc. The redemption price per share generally equals the average of the high and low sale prices of a Class A ordinary share of Accenture plc as reported on the New York Stock Exchange on the trading day on which Accenture Holdings plc receives an irrevocable notice of re