BUSINESSOverview Accenture is one of the world’s leading professional services companies, providing management consulting, technology and outsourcing services to clients across a broad range of industries. We employ more than 305,000 people and have offices and operations in more than 200 cities in 56 countries. Our revenues before reimbursements (“net revenues”) were $30.0 billion for fiscal 2014. We operate globally with one common brand and business model designed to enable us to provide clients around the world with the same high level of service. Drawing on a combination of industry and functional expertise, technology capabilities and alliances, and our global delivery resources, we seek to provide differentiated services that help our clients measurably improve their business performance and create sustainable value for their customers and stakeholders. Our global delivery model enables us to provide an end-to-end delivery capability by drawing on our global resources to deliver high-quality, cost-effective solutions to our clients. In fiscal 2014, we continued to implement a strategy focused on industry and technology differentiation, as well as geographic expansion. We have made a number of changes in our operating model and organization structure, including moving additional professionals with management consulting and technology consulting skills from other parts of the Company into our five operating groups. We also aligned our organization around three geographic regions: North America (the United States and Canada); Europe; and Growth Markets (Asia Pacific, Latin America, Africa, the Middle East, Russia and Turkey). In addition, we aligned our resources around four growth platforms: Accenture Strategy, a unique capability bringing together business strategy and technology strategy at scale; Accenture Digital, an end-to-end digital capability combining our services in digital marketing, analytics and mobility; Accenture Technology, which provides global delivery capabilities, focuses on research and development in our Technology Labs and manages our alliance relationships; and Accenture Operations, which combines our business process outsourcing capabilities with our infrastructure and cloud services, enabling us to run key operations “as a service” for clients. We combine our capabilities across strategy, digital, technology and operations to provide differentiated, industry- and function-based, end-to-end business services.1Table of ContentsOperating Groups Our five operating groups are Accenture’s primary market channel, organized around 19 industry groups that serve clients globally in more than 40 industries. Our industry focus gives us an understanding of industry evolution, business issues and applicable technologies, enabling us to deliver innovative solutions tailored to each client or, as appropriate, more standardized capabilities to multiple clients. The operating groups assemble integrated client engagement teams, which typically consist of industry experts, capability specialists and professionals with local market knowledge. The operating groups have primary responsibility for building and sustaining long-term client relationships; providing management and technology consulting services; working with the growth platforms to sell and deliver the full suite of our services, including our global delivery capabilities; ensuring client satisfaction; and achieving revenue and profitability objectives.The following table shows the current organization of our five operating groups and their 19 industry groups. Our operating groups are our reportable operating segments. We do not allocate total assets by operating group, although our operating groups do manage and control certain assets. For certain historical financial information regarding our operating groups (including certain asset information), as well as financial information by geography (including long-lived asset information), see Note 17 (Segment Reporting) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”Operating Groups and Industry GroupsCommunications, Media & TechnologyFinancialServicesHealth &Public ServiceProductsResources •  Communications •  Electronics & High Tech •  Media & Entertainment •  Banking •  Capital Markets •  Insurance •  Health •  Public Service •  Air, Freight & Travel Services •  Automotive •  Consumer Goods & Services •  Industrial Equipment •  Infrastructure & Transportation Services •  Life Sciences •  Retail •  Chemicals •  Energy •  Natural Resources •  UtilitiesCommunications, Media & TechnologyOur Communications, Media & Technology operating group serves the communications, electronics, high technology, media and entertainment industries. Professionals in this operating group help clients accelerate and deliver digital transformation, enhance their business results through industry-specific solutions and seize the opportunities made possible by the convergence of communications, computing and content. Examples of our services include helping clients develop cost-effective operations, create business model innovations, and digitally engage and entertain their customers. Our Communications, Media & Technology operating group comprises the following industry groups:•Communications.  Our Communications industry group serves most of the world’s leading wireline, wireless, cable and satellite communications and service providers. We provide a range of services designed to help our communications clients grow revenues, increase profitability, improve customer satisfaction and enable them to become digital businesses. We provide enterprise and industry-customized services in network engineering and integration, field force enablement, and IP network migration. In addition, we offer online customer relationship management and enterprise relationship management services, and help our clients develop new video-over-IP platforms and transform legacy broadcast platforms to digital. Our Communications industry group represented approximately 51% of our Communications, Media & Technology operating group’s net revenues in fiscal 2014. •Electronics & High Tech.  Our Electronics & High Tech industry group serves the following industries: information and communications technology, software, semiconductor, consumer electronics, aerospace and defense, and medical equipment. We provide services in areas such as strategy, enterprise resource management, customer relationship management, integrated mobility, embedded software, product lifecycle management, sales transformation, digital marketing, supply chain management and merger/acquisition integration. Our Electronics & High Tech industry group represented approximately 38% of our Communications, Media & Technology operating group’s net revenues in fiscal 2014.•Media & Entertainment.  Our Media & Entertainment industry group serves the broadcast, entertainment, print, publishing and Internet/social media industries. We provide a wide range of digital services, including video solutions, marketing, performance advertising, intellectual property management, and content and media technologies designed to help clients effectively manage, access, distribute, sell and protect content across multiple networks, platforms and devices. We also provide comprehensive turn-key solutions that help content owners and distributors adapt business processes and systems to enable digital monetization.Financial ServicesOur Financial Services operating group serves the banking, capital markets and insurance industries. Professionals in this operating group work with clients in a dynamic global market environment to address growth, cost and profitability pressures, 2Table of Contentsindustry consolidation, regulatory changes and the need to continually adapt to new technologies. We offer services designed to help our clients increase cost efficiency, grow their customer base, manage risk and transform their operations. Our Financial Services operating group comprises the following industry groups: •Banking.  Our Banking industry group helps retail and commercial banks, mortgage lenders and diversified financial enterprises execute strategies to achieve growth; lower costs; acquire and retain customers; expand product and service offerings; manage risks; comply with new regulations; and leverage new technologies and distribution channels. We also provide software, technologies and services to improve the performance of our clients’ core banking, credit and payments operations. Our Banking industry group represented approximately 51% of our Financial Services operating group’s net revenues in fiscal 2014. •Capital Markets.  Our Capital Markets industry group helps investment banks, wealth and asset management firms, broker/dealers, depositories, exchanges and clearing and settlement organizations to improve their business performance. Our services include developing and implementing trading, risk management, wealth and asset-management, and market infrastructure systems and solutions.•Insurance.  Our Insurance industry group helps property and casualty insurers, life insurers, reinsurance firms and insurance brokers improve business processes, make their products and operations more customer-centric, improve the quality and consistency of risk underwriting decisions and modernize their technologies. We offer core system software that enables better customer service while optimizing costs and delivering products faster. We also provide outsourcing solutions designed to help insurers improve working capital and cash flow, deliver cost savings and enhance long-term growth.Health & Public Service Our Health & Public Service operating group serves healthcare payers and providers, as well as government departments and agencies, public service organizations, educational institutions and non-profit organizations around the world. The group’s service offerings and research-based insights are designed to help clients deliver better social, economic and health outcomes to the people they serve. Our Health & Public Service operating group comprises the following industry groups:•Health.  Our Health industry group works with healthcare providers, such as hospitals, public health systems, policy-making authorities, health insurers (payers), and industry organizations and associations around the world to improve the quality, accessibility and productivity of healthcare. We provide services in a variety of areas, including clinical services, such as electronic medical records; health management and administration services, such as health insurance exchanges; claims excellence/cost containment, and improving and connecting health information technology systems. Our Health industry group represented approximately 34% of our Health & Public Service operating group’s net revenues in fiscal 2014. •Public Service.  Our Public Service industry group helps governments transform the way they deliver public services and engage with citizens. We provide services designed to help them increase the efficiency of their operations, improve service delivery to citizens and reduce their overall costs. We work primarily with defense departments and military forces; public safety authorities, such as police forces and border management agencies; justice departments; human services agencies; educational institutions, such as universities; non-profit organizations; and postal, customs, revenue and tax agencies. Our clients include national, state and local-level governments as well as multilateral organizations. Our work with clients in the U.S. federal government is delivered through Accenture Federal Services, a U.S. company and a wholly owned subsidiary of Accenture LLP. Accenture’s U.S. federal business serves every Cabinet-level agency and more than 30 of the largest organizations in the federal government. Our Public Service industry group represented approximately 66% of our Health & Public Service operating group’s net revenues in fiscal 2014. In addition, our work with clients in the U.S. federal government represented approximately 31% of our Health & Public Service operating group’s net revenues in fiscal 2014. Products Our Products operating group serves a set of increasingly interconnected consumer-relevant industries. Our Products operating group comprises the following industry groups: •Air, Freight & Travel Services.  Our Air, Freight & Travel Services industry group serves airlines, freight and logistics companies, and travel services companies, including hotels, tour operators, rental car companies and cruise operators. We help clients address organizational effectiveness by developing and implementing more efficient networks, optimizing back-office functions, integrating supply chains, developing procurement strategies and building improved customer relationship management capabilities. We also offer industry-specific solutions, such as Navitaire for the airline industry and a proprietary end-to-end shipment management solution for the freight and logistics industry. For hospitality and travel services companies, we provide services ranging from multichannel commerce and global personalization services to transforming and automating back-office functions such as IT and finance and accounting.3Table of Contents•Automotive.  Our Automotive industry group works with original equipment manufacturers and suppliers. We help clients respond to the evolving needs of their customers with offerings that range from in-vehicle infotainment to customer-centered sales and marketing. In addition, our global capabilities are designed to improve efficiencies and drive value in areas including global manufacturing, aftersales and services, and product lifecycle optimization.•Consumer Goods & Services.  Our Consumer Goods & Services industry group serves food and beverage, alcoholic beverage, household goods, personal care, tobacco, fashion/apparel, agribusiness and consumer health companies around the world. Our offerings are designed to help companies improve their performance by addressing core IT, enterprise services, channel and sales management, consumer engagement, working capital productivity improvement and supply chain collaboration. We also help clients build operating models that support end-to-end processes needed to improve business results.•Industrial Equipment.  Our Industrial Equipment industry group serves the industrial and electrical equipment, automotive supplier, consumer durable and heavy equipment industries. We help our clients increase operating and supply chain efficiencies by improving processes and leveraging technology, and also help clients generate value from strategic mergers and acquisitions. In addition, our Industrial Equipment industry group develops and deploys solutions in the areas of cloud computing, product lifecycle management, channel management, collaborative product design, remote field maintenance, enterprise application integration and outsourcing. •Infrastructure & Transportation Services.  Our Infrastructure & Transportation Services industry group serves companies in the construction, infrastructure management (ports, airports, seaports and road-tolling facilities) and mass transportation industries. We help clients develop and implement strategies and solutions designed to improve their information technology and customer relationship management capabilities, operate more efficient networks, integrate supply chains, develop procurement and electronic business marketplace strategies, and more effectively manage maintenance, repair and overhaul processes and expenses—all in the context of increasing priorities around mobility services and sustainability. •Life Sciences.  Our Life Sciences industry group works with pharmaceutical, medical technology and biotechnology companies. We provide services in large-scale business and technology transformation, business performance improvement, post-merger integration, and business process and technology outsourcing. Our life sciences expertise covers the key business areas of research and development, marketing and sales/commercial services, supply chain, manufacturing and select back-office functions. •Retail.  Our Retail industry group serves a wide range of companies, including supermarkets, hardline retailers, mass-merchandise discounters, department stores, and fashion and other specialty retailers. We provide services in the areas of supply chain management and customer relationship management, as well as offerings designed to help retailers become integrated digital enterprises and provide a seamless shopping experience across multiple channels for their customers. We use analytics to revamp traditional approaches to marketing, pricing, promotion, assortment and fulfillment. Resources Our Resources operating group serves the chemicals, energy, forest products, metals and mining, utilities and related industries. Market conditions are driving energy companies to seek new ways of creating value for shareholders; deregulation and climate change are fundamentally reforming the utilities industry and yielding cross-border opportunities; and there is an intensive focus on productivity and portfolio management in the chemicals and natural resources industries. We work with clients to address all of these challenges and to create solutions designed to help them differentiate themselves in the marketplace, gain competitive advantage and manage their large-scale capital investments. Our Resources operating group comprises the following industry groups: •Chemicals.  Our Chemicals industry group works with a wide cross-section of industry segments, including petrochemicals, specialty chemicals, polymers and plastics, gases and agricultural chemicals, among others. We help chemical companies develop and implement new business strategies, redesign business processes, manage complex change initiatives, and integrate processes and technologies to achieve higher levels of performance.•Energy.  Our Energy industry group serves a wide range of companies in the oil and gas industry, including upstream, downstream, oil services and clean-energy companies. We help our clients optimize production, manage their hydrocarbon and non-hydrocarbon supply chains, streamline marketing operations and realize the potential of third-party enterprise-wide technology solutions. Our Energy industry group represented approximately 36% of our Resources operating group’s net revenues in fiscal 2014. •Natural Resources.  Our Natural Resources industry group serves the metals, mining, forest products and building materials industries. We help our clients—which primarily include mining companies in the coal, iron ore, copper and 4Table of Contentsprecious metals sectors, as well as steel and aluminum producers—develop and execute innovative strategies, improve operations and reduce risk. •Utilities.  Our Utilities industry group works with electric, gas and water utilities around the world to respond to an evolving marketplace. Our services and solutions enable transformation across the entire value chain for generation and energy markets, transmission and distribution, retail and customer operations. Our Utilities industry group represented approximately 33% of our Resources operating group’s net revenues in fiscal 2014. Growth Platforms Our four growth platforms—Accenture Strategy, Accenture Digital, Accenture Technology and Accenture Operations—are the skill-based innovation engines through which we build world-class capabilities; develop our knowledge capital; and create, acquire and manage key assets central to the development of solutions for our clients. The professionals within these areas work closely with those in our operating groups to develop and deliver integrated services and solutions to clients. Accenture Strategy Accenture Strategy helps clients achieve specific business outcomes and enhance shareholder value by defining and executing industry-specific strategies enabled by technology. We bring together our capabilities in business strategy, technology strategy and operations/functional strategy to help senior management teams shape and execute their transformation objectives, focusing on issues related to digital disruption, competitiveness, global operating models, and talent and leadership. We provide a range of strategy services focused on areas such as digital technologies; enterprise architecture and applications; finance and enterprise performance; IT; mergers and acquisitions; operations; sales and customer service; sustainability; and talent and organization.Accenture DigitalAccenture Digital combines our capabilities in digital marketing, analytics and mobility to help clients provide better experiences for the customers they serve, create new products and business models, and enhance their digital enterprise capabilities. We provide digital services across two broad areas:•Digital Customers, Channels & Markets. We help clients use digital technologies to deliver more meaningful and relevant customer experiences across all channels, customer segments and geographies. Our services focus on digital customer interactions, sales and channel distribution options. Our services span social networks, social media, digital marketing, direct-to-consumer and eCommerce platforms, as well as mobile commerce and mobility services.•Digital Enterprise. We help clients use digital technologies to optimize the efficiency and effectiveness of their internal operations. Our services transform business processes, enable new operating models and connected product platforms, and enhance productivity through advanced analytics and collaboration capabilities. Accenture Technology Accenture Technology comprises two primary areas: technology delivery and technology innovation & ecosystem.•Technology Delivery. Technology Delivery includes our application services spanning systems integration and application outsourcing; our portfolio of software solutions; and our global delivery capability in Technology. We continuously innovate and leverage intelligent tools and other automation to improve delivery efficiency and productivity.•Technology Innovation & Ecosystem. We harness innovation through the research and development activities in our Technology Labs and through emerging technologies. We also manage our technology platforms and our alliance relationships across a broad range of technology providers, including SAP, Oracle, Microsoft, salesforce.com, Workday, Pegasystems and many others, to enhance the value that we and our clients realize from the technology ecosystem. Accenture Operations Accenture Operations provides business process outsourcing, infrastructure consulting, infrastructure outsourcing and cloud services, including the Accenture Cloud Platform. We operate infrastructure and business processes on behalf of clients to help improve their productivity and performance. •Business Process Outsourcing Services. We offer services for specific business functions, such as finance and accounting, procurement, marketing, human resources and learning, as well as industry-specific services, such as credit and health services. We provide these services on a global basis and across industry sectors through our Global Delivery Network.•Infrastructure and Cloud Services. We provide on-premise and “as-a-service” infrastructure and security design, implementation and operation services to help organizations take advantage of innovative technologies and improve the efficiency and effectiveness of their existing technology. Our solutions help clients optimize their IT infrastructures—whether on-premise, in the cloud, or a hybrid of the two. 5Table of ContentsGlobal Delivery Model A key differentiator is our global delivery model, which allows us to draw on the benefits of using people and other resources from around the world—including scalable, standardized processes, methods and tools; industry expertise and specialized capabilities; cost advantages; foreign language fluency; proximity to clients; and time zone advantages—to deliver high-quality solutions. Emphasizing quality, productivity, reduced risk, speed to market and predictability, our global delivery model supports all parts of our business to provide clients with price-competitive services and solutions. Our Global Delivery Network continues to be a competitive differentiator for us. As of August 31, 2014, we had more than 205,000 professionals in our network globally in more than 50 delivery centers around the world, as well as Accenture offices and client locations.Alliances We have sales and delivery alliances with companies whose capabilities complement our own by, among other things, enhancing a service offering, delivering a new technology or helping us extend our services to new geographies. By combining our alliance partners’ products and services with our own capabilities and expertise, we create innovative, high-value business solutions for our clients. Most of our alliances are non-exclusive. These alliances can generate significant revenues from services we provide to implement our alliance partners’ products as well as revenue from the resale of their products. We also receive as reimbursement some direct payments, which are not material to our business, from our alliance partners to cover costs we incur for marketing and other assistance. Research and Innovation We are committed to developing leading-edge ideas. Research and innovation have been major factors in our success, and we believe they will help us continue to grow in the future. We use our investment in research and development—on which we spent $640 million, $715 million and $560 million in fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively—to help create, commercialize and disseminate innovative business strategies and technology solutions.Our research and innovation program is designed to generate early insights into how knowledge can be harnessed to create innovative business solutions for our clients and to develop business strategies with significant value. One component of this is our research and development organization, Accenture Technology Labs, where we identify and develop new technologies. We also promote the creation of knowledge capital and thought leadership through the Accenture Institute for High Performance. In addition, we spend a significant portion of our research and development investment directly through our operating groups and growth platforms to develop market-ready solutions for our clients. Employees Our most important asset is our people. One of our key goals is to have the best talent, with highly specialized skills, at the right levels in the right locations, to enhance our differentiation and competitiveness. We are deeply committed to the career development of our employees, who receive significant and focused technical, functional, industry, managerial and leadership skill development and training appropriate for their roles and levels within the Company. We provide our people with expert content and opportunities to collaborate in a broad range of physical and virtual learning environments. We seek to reinforce our employees’ commitments to our clients, culture and values through a comprehensive performance management and compensation system and a career philosophy that provides rewards based on individual and Company performance. We strive to maintain a work environment that reinforces collaboration, motivation and innovation and is consistent with our core values and Code of Business Ethics. As of August 31, 2014, we employed more than 305,000 people worldwide. Competition We operate in a highly competitive and rapidly changing global marketplace and compete with a variety of organizations that offer services competitive with those we offer. Our competitors include: •large multinational providers, including the services arms of large global technology providers (hardware, equipment and software), that offer some or all of the services that we do;•off-shore service providers in lower-cost locations, particularly in India, that offer services globally that are similar to the services we offer, often at highly competitive prices and on more aggressive contractual terms; •accounting firms that have expanded or are in the process of expanding, including through acquisitions, their consulting services in areas that compete with us; •niche solution or service providers or local competitors that compete with us in a specific geographic market, industry segment or service area, including companies that provide new or alternative products, services or delivery models; and6Table of Contents•in-house departments of large corporations that use their own resources, rather than engage an outside firm for the types of services we provide.Our revenues are derived primarily from Fortune Global 500 and Fortune 1000 companies, medium-sized companies, governments, government agencies and other enterprises. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the industries in which we compete include: •skills and capabilities of people; •technical and industry expertise; •innovative service and product offerings; •ability to add business value and improve performance; •reputation and client references; •contractual terms, including competitive pricing; •ability to deliver results reliably and on a timely basis; •scope of services; •service delivery approach; •quality of services and solutions;•availability of appropriate resources; and•global reach and scale, including level of presence in key emerging markets.Our clients typically retain us on a non-exclusive basis. Intellectual Property We provide value to our clients based in part on a differentiated range of proprietary inventions, methodologies, software, reusable knowledge capital and other intellectual property. We recognize the increasing value of intellectual property in the marketplace and create, harvest, and protect this intellectual property. We leverage patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark laws as well as contractual arrangements to protect our intellectual property. We have also established policies to respect the intellectual property rights of third parties, such as our clients, partners and others. As of August 31, 2014, we had over 2,490 patent applications pending worldwide and had been issued over 1,020 U.S. patents and 1,170 non-U.S. patents. Trademarks appearing in this report are the trademarks or registered trademarks of Accenture Global Services Ltd or third parties, as applicable.Organizational StructureAccenture plc is an Irish public limited company with no material assets other than Class I common shares in its subsidiary, Accenture SCA, a Luxembourg partnership limited by shares (“Accenture SCA”). Accenture plc owns a majority voting interest in Accenture SCA and Accenture plc’s only business is to hold these shares. As the general partner of Accenture SCA and as a result of Accenture plc’s majority voting interest in Accenture SCA, Accenture plc controls Accenture SCA’s management and operations and consolidates Accenture SCA’s results in its Consolidated Financial Statements. We operate our business through subsidiaries of Accenture SCA. Accenture SCA generally reimburses Accenture plc for its expenses but does not pay Accenture plc any fees. HistoryPrior to our transition to a corporate structure in fiscal 2001, we operated as a series of related partnerships and corporations under the control of our partners. In connection with our transition to a corporate structure, our partners generally exchanged all of their interests in these partnerships and corporations for Accenture Ltd Class A common shares or, in the case of partners in certain countries, Accenture SCA Class I common shares or exchangeable shares issued by Accenture Canada Holdings Inc., an indirect subsidiary of Accenture SCA. Generally, partners who received Accenture SCA Class I common shares or Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares also received a corresponding number of Accenture Ltd Class X common shares, which entitled their holders to vote at Accenture Ltd shareholder meetings but did not carry any economic rights. The combination of the Accenture Ltd Class X common shares and the Accenture SCA Class I common shares or Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares gave these partners substantially similar economic and governance rights as holders of Accenture Ltd Class A common shares.On June 10, 2009, Accenture plc was inco